

United States Supreme Court
TRUMP  v.  INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ASSISTANCE PROJECT, (2017)
No. 16-1436
Argued:     Decided: June 26, 2017



     Per Curiam.
     These cases involve challenges to Executive Order No. 13780, Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.  The order alters practices concerning the entry of foreign nationals into the United States by, among other things, suspending entry of nationals from six designated countries for 90 days.  Respondents challenged the order in two separate lawsuits.  They obtained preliminary injunctions barring enforcement of several of its provisions, including the 90-day suspension of entry.  The injunctions were upheld in large measure by the Courts of Appeals.
     The Government filed separate petitions for certiorari, as well as applications to stay the preliminary injunctions entered by the lower courts.  We grant the petitions for certiorari and grant the stay applications in part.
I
A
     On January 27, 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed Executive Order No. 13769, Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.  82 Fed. Reg. 8977 (EO-1).  EO-1 addressed policies and procedures relating to the entry of foreign nationals into this country.  Among other directives, the order suspended entry of foreign nationals from seven countries identified as presenting heightened terrorism risks--Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen--for 90 days.  §3(c).  Executive officials were instructed to review the adequacy of current practices relating to visa adjudications during this 90-day period.  §3(a).  EO-1 also modified refugee policy, suspending the United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days and reducing the number of refugees eligible to be admitted to the United States during fiscal year 2017.  §§5(a), (d).
     EO-1 was immediately challenged in court.  Just a week after the order was issued, a Federal District Court entered a nationwide temporary restraining order enjoining enforcement of several of its key provisions.  Washington v. Trump, 2017 WL 462040 (WD Wash., Feb. 3, 2017).  Six days later, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit denied the Government's emergency motion to stay the order pending appeal.  Washington v. Trump, 847 F. 3d 1151 (2017).  Rather than continue to litigate EO-1, the Government announced that it would revoke the order and issue a new one.
     A second order followed on March 6, 2017.  See Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States, Exec. Order No. 13780, 82 Fed. Reg. 13209 (EO-2).  EO-2 describes "conditions in six of the . . . countries" as to which EO-1 had suspended entry, stating that these conditions "demonstrate [that] nationals [of those countries] continue to present heightened risks to the security of the United States," §1(e), and that "some of those who have entered the United States through our immigration system have proved to be threats to our national security," §1(h).
     Having identified these concerns, EO-2 sets out a series of directives patterned on those found in EO-1.  Several are relevant here.  First, EO-2 directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a global review to determine whether foreign governments provide adequate information about nationals applying for United States visas.  §2(a).  EO-2 directs the Secretary to report his findings to the President within 20 days of the order's "effective date," after which time those nations identified as deficient will be given 50 days to alter their practices.  §§2(b), (d)-(e).
     Second, EO-2 directs that entry of nationals from six of the seven countries designated in EO-1--Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen--be "suspended for 90 days from the effective date" of the order.  §2(c).  EO-2 explains that this pause is necessary to ensure that dangerous individuals do not enter the United States while the Executive is working to establish "adequate standards . . . to prevent infiltration by foreign terrorists"; in addition, suspending entry will "temporarily reduce investigative burdens on agencies" during the Secretary's 20-day review.  Ibid.  A separate section provides for case-by-case waivers of the entry bar.  §3(c).
     Third, EO-2 suspends "decisions on applications for refugee status" and "travel of refugees into the United States under the USRAP" for 120 days following its effective date.  §6(a).  During that period, the Secretary of State is instructed to review the adequacy of USRAP application and adjudication procedures and implement whatever additional procedures are necessary "to ensure that individuals seeking admission as refugees do not pose a threat" to national security.  Ibid.
     Fourth, citing the President's determination that "the entry of more than 50,000 refugees in fiscal year 2017 would be detrimental to the interests of the United States," EO-2 "suspend[s] any entries in excess of that number" for this fiscal year.  §6(b).
     Finally, §14 of EO-2 establishes the order's effective date: March 16, 2017.
B
     Respondents in these cases filed separate lawsuits challenging EO-2.  As relevant, they argued that the order violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment because it was motivated not by concerns pertaining to national security, but by animus toward Islam.  They further argued that EO-2 does not comply with certain provisions in the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 187, as amended.
     In No. 16-1436, a Federal District Court concluded that respondents were likely to succeed on their Establishment Clause claim with respect to §2(c) of EO-2--the provision temporarily suspending entry from six countries--and entered a nationwide preliminary injunction barring the Government from enforcing §2(c) against any foreign national seeking entry to the United States.  International Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump, ___ F. Supp. 3d ___, 2017 WL 1018235 (D Md., Mar. 16, 2017) (IRAP).  The District Court in No. 16-1540--likewise relying on the Establishment Clause--entered a broader preliminary injunction: The court enjoined nationwide enforcement of all of §§2 and 6.  Hawaii v. Trump, ___ F. Supp. 3d ___, 2017 WL 1167383 (D Haw., Mar. 29, 2017) (entering preliminary injunction); ___ F. Supp. 3d ___, 2017 WL 1011673 (D Haw., Mar. 15, 2017) (entering temporary restraining order).  In addition to the §2(c) suspension of entry, this injunction covered the §6(a) suspension of refugee admissions, the §6(b) reduction in the refugee cap, and the provisions in §§2 and 6 pertaining only to internal executive review.
     These orders, entered before EO-2 went into effect, prevented the Government from initiating enforcement of the challenged provisions.  The Government filed appeals in both cases.
     The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ruled first.  On May 25, over three dissenting votes, the en banc court issued a decision in IRAP that largely upheld the order enjoining enforcement of §2(c).  857 F. 3d 554.  The majority determined that respondent John Doe #1, a lawful permanent resident whose Iranian wife is seeking entry to the United States, was likely to succeed on the merits of his Establishment Clause claim.  The majority concluded that the primary purpose of §2(c) was religious, in violation of the First Amendment: A reasonable observer familiar with all the circumstances--including the predominantly Muslim character of the designated countries and statements made by President Trump during his Presidential campaign--would conclude that §2(c) was motivated principally by a desire to exclude Muslims from the United States, not by considerations relating to national security.  Having reached this conclusion, the court upheld the preliminary injunction prohibiting enforcement of §2(c) against any foreign national seeking to enter this country.
     On June 1, the Government filed a petition for certiorari seeking review of the Fourth Circuit's decision.  It also filed applications seeking stays of both injunctions, including the Hawaii injunction still pending before the Ninth Circuit.  In addition, the Government requested that this Court expedite the certiorari stage briefing.  We accordingly directed respondents to file responses to the stay applications by June 12 and respondents in IRAP to file a brief in opposition to the Government's petition for certiorari by the same day.
     Respondents' June 12 filings injected a new issue into the cases.  In IRAP, respondents argued that the suspension of entry in §2(c) would expire on June 14.  Section 2(c), they reasoned, directs that entry "be suspended for 90 days from the effective date of" EO-2.  The "effective date" of EO-2 was March 16.  §14.  Although courts had enjoined portions of EO-2, they had not altered its effective date, nor so much as mentioned §14.  Thus, even though it had never been enforced, the entry suspension would expire 90 days from March 16: June 14.  At that time, the dispute over §2(c) would become moot.  Brief in Opposition 13-14.
     On the same day respondents filed, the Ninth Circuit ruled in Hawaii.  ___ F. 3d ___, 2017 WL 2529640 (June 12, 2017) ( per curiam).  A unanimous panel held in favor of respondents the State of Hawaii and Dr. Ismail Elshikh, an American citizen and imam whose Syrian mother-in-law is seeking entry to this country.  Rather than rely on the constitutional grounds supporting the District Court's decision, the court held that portions of EO-2 likely exceeded the President's authority under the INA.  On that basis it upheld the injunction as to the §2(c) entry suspension, the §6(a) suspension of refugee admissions, and the §6(b) refugee cap.  The Ninth Circuit, like the Fourth Circuit, concluded that the injunction should bar enforcement of these provisions across the board, because they would violate the INA "in all applications."  Id., at *28.  The court did, however, narrow the injunction so that it would not bar the Government from undertaking the internal executive reviews directed by EO-2.
     We granted the parties' requests for supplemental briefing addressed to the decision of the Ninth Circuit.  Before those briefs were filed, however, the ground shifted again.  On June 14, evidently in response to the argument that §2(c) was about to expire, President Trump issued a memorandum to Executive Branch officials.  The memorandum declared the effective date of each enjoined provision of EO-2 to be the date on which the injunctions in these cases "are lifted or stayed with respect to that provision."  Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence (June 14, 2017).  The memorandum further provided that, to the extent necessary, it "should be construed to amend the Executive Order."  Ibid.  The Government takes the view that, if any mootness problem existed previously, the President's memorandum has cured it.
     The parties have since completed briefing, with the Government requesting that we construe its supplemental brief in Hawaii as a petition for certiorari.  There is no objection from respondents, and we do so.  Both petitions for certiorari and both stay applications are accordingly ripe for consideration.
II
     The Government seeks review on several issues.  In IRAP, the Government argues that respondent Doe lacks standing to challenge §2(c).*  The Government also contends that Doe's Establishment Clause claim fails on the merits.  In its view, the Fourth Circuit should not have asked whether §2(c) has a primarily religious purpose.  The court instead should have upheld EO-2 because it rests on the "facially legitimate and bona fide" justification of protecting national security.  Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408 U. S. 753, 770 (1972).  In addition, the Fourth Circuit erred by focusing on the President's campaign-trail comments to conclude that §2(c)--religiously neutral on its face--nonetheless has a principally religious purpose.  At the very least, the Government argues, the injunction is too broad.
     In Hawaii, the Government likewise argues that respondents Hawaii and Dr. Elshikh lack standing and that (at a minimum) the injunction should be narrowed.  The Government's principal merits contention pertains to a statutory provision authorizing the President to "suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens" to this country "[w]henever [he] finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens . . . would be detrimental to the interests of the United States."  8 U. S. C. §1182(f).  The Ninth Circuit held that "[t]here is no sufficient finding in [EO-2] that the entry of the excluded classes would be detrimental to the interests of the United States."  Hawaii, 2017 WL 2529640, at *14.  This, the Government argues, constitutes impermissible judicial second-guessing of the President's judgment on a matter of national security.
     In addition to seeking certiorari, the Government asks the Court to stay the injunctions entered below, thereby permitting the enjoined provisions to take effect.  According to the Government, it is likely to suffer irreparable harm unless a stay issues.  Focusing mostly on §2(c), and pointing to the descriptions of conditions in the six designated nations, the Government argues that a 90-day pause on entry is necessary to prevent potentially dangerous individuals from entering the United States while the Executive reviews the adequacy of information provided by foreign governments in connection with visa adjudications.  Additionally, the Government asserts, the temporary bar is needed to reduce the Executive's investigative burdens while this review proceeds.
A
     To begin, we grant both of the Government's petitions for certiorari and consolidate the cases for argument.  The Clerk is directed to set a briefing schedule that will permit the cases to be heard during the first session of October Term 2017.  (The Government has not requested that we expedite consideration of the merits to a greater extent.)  In addition to the issues identified in the petitions, the parties are directed to address the following question: "Whether the challenges to §2(c) became moot on June 14, 2017."
B
     We now turn to the preliminary injunctions barring enforcement of the §2(c) entry suspension.  We grant the Government's applications to stay the injunctions, to the extent the injunctions prevent enforcement of §2(c) with respect to foreign nationals who lack any bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States.  We leave the injunctions entered by the lower courts in place with respect to respondents and those similarly situated, as specified in this opinion.  See infra, at 11-12.
     Crafting a preliminary injunction is an exercise of discretion and judgment, often dependent as much on the equities of a given case as the substance of the legal issues it presents.  See Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 555 U. S. 7, 20, 24 (2008); 11A C. Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure §2948 (3d ed. 2013).  The purpose of such interim equitable relief is not to conclusively determine the rights of the parties, University of Tex. v. Camenisch, 451 U. S. 390, 395 (1981), but to balance the equities as the litigation moves forward.  In awarding a preliminary injunction a court must also "conside[r] . . . the overall public interest."  Winter, supra, at 26.  In the course of doing so, a court "need not grant the total relief sought by the applicant but may mold its decree to meet the exigencies of the particular case."  Wright, supra, §2947, at 115.
     Here, of course, we are not asked to grant a preliminary injunction, but to stay one.  In assessing the lower courts' exercise of equitable discretion, we bring to bear an equitable judgment of our own.  Nken v. Holder, 556 U. S. 418, 433 (2009).  Before issuing a stay, "[i]t is ultimately necessary . . . to balance the equities--to explore the relative harms to applicant and respondent, as well as the interests of the public at large."  Barnes v. E-Systems, Inc. Group Hospital Medical & Surgical Ins. Plan, 501 U. S. 1301, 1305 (1991) (Scalia, J., in chambers) (internal quotation marks omitted).  This Court may, in its discretion, tailor a stay so that it operates with respect to only "some portion of the proceeding."  Nken, supra, at 428.
     The courts below took account of the equities in fashioning interim relief, focusing specifically on the concrete burdens that would fall on Doe, Dr. Elshikh, and Hawaii if §2(c) were enforced.  They reasoned that §2(c) would "directly affec[t]" Doe and Dr. Elshikh by delaying entry of their family members to the United States.  IRAP, 857 F. 3d, at 585, n. 11; see Hawaii, 2017 WL 2529640, at *7-*8, *24.  The Ninth Circuit concluded that §2(c) would harm the State by preventing students from the designated nations who had been admitted to the University of Hawaii from entering this country.  These hardships, the courts reasoned, were sufficiently weighty and immediate to outweigh the Government's interest in enforcing §2(c).  Having adopted this view of the equities, the courts approved injunctions that covered not just respondents, but parties similarly situated to them--that is, people or entities in the United States who have relationships with foreign nationals abroad, and whose rights might be affected if those foreign nationals were excluded.  See Mandel, 408 U. S., at 763-765 (permitting American plaintiffs to challenge the exclusion of a foreign national on the ground that the exclusion violated their own First Amendment rights).
     But the injunctions reach much further than that: They also bar enforcement of §2(c) against foreign nationals abroad who have no connection to the United States at all.  The equities relied on by the lower courts do not balance the same way in that context.  Denying entry to such a foreign national does not burden any American party by reason of that party's relationship with the foreign national.  And the courts below did not conclude that exclusion  in such circumstances would impose any legally relevant hardship on the foreign national himself.  See id., at 762 ("[A]n unadmitted and nonresident alien . . . ha[s] no constitutional right of entry to this country").  So whatever burdens may result from enforcement of §2(c) against a foreign national who lacks any connection to this country, they are, at a minimum, a good deal less concrete than the hardships identified by the courts below.
     At the same time, the Government's interest in enforcing §2(c), and the Executive's authority to do so, are undoubtedly at their peak when there is no tie between the foreign national and the United States.  Indeed, EO-2 itself distinguishes between foreign nationals who have some connection to this country, and foreign nationals who do not, by establishing a case-by-case waiver system primarily for the benefit of individuals in the former category.  See, e.g., §§3(c)(i)-(vi).  The interest in preserving national security is "an urgent objective of the highest order."  Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 561 U. S. 1, 28 (2010).  To prevent the Government from pursuing that objective by enforcing §2(c) against foreign nationals unconnected to the United States would appreciably injure its interests, without alleviating obvious hardship to anyone else.
     We accordingly grant the Government's stay applications in part and narrow the scope of the injunctions as to §2(c).  The injunctions remain in place only with respect to parties similarly situated to Doe, Dr. Elshikh, and Hawaii.  In practical terms, this means that §2(c) may not be enforced against foreign nationals who have a credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States.  All other foreign nationals are subject to the provisions of EO-2.
     The facts of these cases illustrate the sort of relationship that qualifies.  For individuals, a close familial relationship is required.  A foreign national who wishes to enter the United States to live with or visit a family member, like Doe's wife or Dr. Elshikh's mother-in-law, clearly has such a relationship.  As for entities, the relationship must be formal, documented, and formed in the ordinary course, rather than for the purpose of evading EO-2.  The students from the designated countries who have been admitted to the University of Hawaii have such a relationship with an American entity.  So too would a worker who accepted an offer of employment from an American company or a lecturer invited to address an American audience.  Not so someone who enters into a relationship simply to avoid §2(c): For example, a nonprofit group devoted to immigration issues may not contact foreign nationals from the designated countries, add them to client lists, and then secure their entry by claiming injury from their exclusion.
     In light of the June 12 decision of the Ninth Circuit vacating the injunction as to §2(a), the executive review directed by that subsection may proceed promptly, if it is not already underway.  EO-2 instructs the Secretary of Homeland Security to complete this review within 20 days, after which time foreign governments will be given 50 days further to bring their practices into line with the Secretary's directives.  §§2(a)-(b), (d).  Given the Government's representations in this litigation concerning the resources required to complete the 20-day review, we fully expect that the relief we grant today will permit the Executive to conclude its internal work and provide adequate notice to foreign governments within the 90-day life of §2(c).
C
     The Hawaii injunction extends beyond §2(c) to bar enforcement of the §6(a) suspension of refugee admissions and the §6(b) refugee cap.  In our view, the equitable balance struck above applies in this context as well.  An American individual or entity that has a bona fide relationship with a particular person seeking to enter the country as a refugee can legitimately claim concrete hardship if that person is excluded.  As to these individuals and entities, we do not disturb the injunction.  But when it comes to refugees who lack any such connection to the United States, for the reasons we have set out, the balance tips in favor of the Government's compelling need to provide for the Nation's security.  See supra, at 9-11; Haig v. Agee, 453 U. S. 280, 307 (1981).
     The Government's application to stay the injunction with respect to §§6(a) and (b) is accordingly granted in part.  Section 6(a) may not be enforced against an individual seeking admission as a refugee who can credibly claim a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States.  Nor may §6(b); that is, such a person may not be excluded pursuant to §6(b), even if the 50,000-person cap has been reached or exceeded.  As applied to all other individuals, the provisions may take effect.
*  *  *
     Accordingly, the petitions for certiorari are granted, and the stay applications are granted in part.
It is so ordered.

Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)


DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al. No. 16-1436 (16A1190)     v. INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ASSISTANCE DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al. No. 16-1540 (16A1191)     v. HAWAII, et al.
_________________
Nos. 16-1436 (16A1190) and 16-1540 (16A1191)
_________________
on application for stay and petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit
on application for stay and petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 26, 2017]

     Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
     I agree with the Court that the preliminary injunctions entered in these cases should be stayed, although I would stay them in full.  The decision whether to stay the injunctions is committed to our discretion, ante, at 9-10, but our discretion must be "guided by sound legal principles," Nken v. Holder, 556 U. S. 418, 434 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The two "most critical" factors we must consider in deciding whether to grant a stay are "(1) whether the stay applicant has made a strong showing that [it] is likely to succeed on the merits" and "(2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay."  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  Where a party seeks a stay pending certiorari, as here, the applicant satisfies the first factor only if it can show both "a reasonable probability that certiorari will be granted" and "a significant possibility that the judgment below will be reversed."  Barnes v. E-Systems, Inc. Group Hospital Medical & Surgical Ins. Plan, 501 U. S. 1301, 1302 (1991) (Scalia, J., in chambers).  When we determine that those critical factors are satisfied, we must "balance the equities" by "explor[ing] the relative harms to applicant and respondent, as well as the interests of the public at large."  Id., at 1304-1305 (internal quotation marks omitted); cf. Nken, supra, at 435 (noting that the factors of "assessing the harm to the opposing party and weighing the public interest" "merge when the Government is the opposing party").
     The Government has satisfied the standard for issuing a stay pending certiorari.  We have, of course, decided to grant certiorari.  See ante, at 8-9.  And I agree with the Court's implicit conclusion that the Government has made a strong showing that it is likely to succeed on the merits--that is, that the judgments below will be reversed.  The Government has also established that failure to stay the injunctions will cause irreparable harm by interfering with its "compelling need to provide for the Nation's security."  Ante, at 13.  Finally, weighing the Government's interest in preserving national security against the hardships caused to respondents by temporary denials of entry into the country, the balance of the equities favors the Government.  I would thus grant the Government's applications for a stay in their entirety.
     Reasonable minds may disagree on where the balance of equities lies as between the Government and respondents in these cases.  It would have been reasonable, perhaps, for the Court to have left the injunctions in place only as to respondents themselves.  But the Court takes the additional step of keeping the injunctions in place with regard to an unidentified, unnamed group of foreign nationals abroad.  No class has been certified, and neither party asks for the scope of relief that the Court today provides.  "[I]njunctive relief should be no more burdensome to the defendant than necessary to provide complete relief to the plaintiffs" in the case, Califano v. Yamasaki, 442 U. S. 682, 702 (1979) (emphasis added), because a court's role is "to provide relief" only "to claimants . . . who have suffered, or will imminently suffer, actual harm."  Lewis v. Casey, 518 U. S. 343, 349 (1996).  In contrast, it is the role of the "political branches" to "shape the institutions of government in such fashion as to comply with the laws and the Constitution."  Ibid.
     Moreover, I fear that the Court's remedy will prove unworkable.  Today's compromise will burden executive officials with the task of deciding--on peril of contempt--whether individuals from the six affected nations who wish to enter the United States have a sufficient connection to a person or entity in this country.  See ante, at 11-12.  The compromise also will invite a flood of litigation until this case is finally resolved on the merits, as parties and courts struggle to determine what exactly constitutes a "bona fide relationship," who precisely has a "credible claim" to that relationship, and whether the claimed relationship was formed "simply to avoid §2(c)" of Executive Order No. 13780, ante, at 11, 12.  And litigation of the factual and legal issues that are likely to arise will presumably be directed to the two District Courts whose initial orders in these cases this Court has now--unanimously--found sufficiently questionable to be stayed as to the vast majority of the people potentially affected.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1* On June 24, 2017, this Court received a letter from counsel for Doe advising that Doe's wife received an immigrant visa on or about June 22, 2017.  The parties may address the significance of that development at the merits stage.  It does not affect our analysis of the stay issues in these cases.





United States Supreme Court
JAE LEE v. UNITED STATES, (2017)
No. 16-327
Argued: March 28, 2017    Decided: June 23, 2017


Petitioner Jae Lee moved to the United States from South Korea with his parents when he was 13.  In the 35 years he has spent in this country, he has never returned to South Korea, nor has he become a U. S. citizen, living instead as a lawful permanent resident.  In 2008, federal officials received a tip from a confidential informant that Lee had sold the informant ecstasy and marijuana.  After obtaining a warrant, the officials searched Lee's house, where they found drugs, cash, and a loaded rifle.  Lee admitted that the drugs were his, and a grand jury indicted him on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute.  Lee retained counsel and entered into plea discussions with the Government.  During the plea process, Lee repeatedly asked his attorney whether he would face deportation; his attorney assured him that he would not be deported as a result of pleading guilty.  Based on that assurance, Lee accepted a plea and was sentenced to a year and a day in prison.  Lee had in fact pleaded guilty to an "aggravated felony" under the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B), so he was, contrary to his attorney's advice, subject to mandatory deportation as a result of that plea.  See §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  When Lee learned of this consequence, he filed a motion to vacate his conviction and sentence, arguing that his attorney had provided constitutionally ineffective assistance.  At an evidentiary hearing, both Lee and his plea-stage counsel testified that "deportation was the determinative issue" to Lee in deciding whether to accept a plea, and Lee's counsel acknowledged that although Lee's defense to the charge was weak, if he had known Lee would be deported upon pleading guilty, he would have advised him to go to trial.  A Magistrate Judge recommended that Lee's plea be set aside and his conviction vacated.  The District Court, however, denied relief, and the Sixth Circuit affirmed.  Applying the two-part test for ineffective assistance claims from Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, the Sixth Circuit concluded that, while the Government conceded that Lee's counsel had performed deficiently, Lee could not show that he was prejudiced by his attorney's erroneous advice.
Held: Lee has demonstrated that he was prejudiced by his counsel's erroneous advice.  Pp. 5-13.
     (a) When a defendant claims that his counsel's deficient performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 59.
     Lee contends that he can make this showing because he never would have accepted a guilty plea had he known the result would be deportation.  The Government contends that Lee cannot show prejudice from accepting a plea where his only hope at trial was that something unexpected and unpredictable might occur that would lead to acquittal.  Pp. 5-8.
     (b) The Government makes two errors in urging the adoption of a per se rule that a defendant with no viable defense cannot show prejudice from the denial of his right to trial.  First, it forgets that categorical rules are ill suited to an inquiry that demands a "case-by-case examination" of the "totality of the evidence."  Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (internal quotation marks omitted); Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.  More fundamentally, it overlooks that the Hill v. Lockhart inquiry focuses on a defendant's decisionmaking, which may not turn solely on the likelihood of conviction after trial.
     The decision whether to plead guilty also involves assessing the respective consequences of a conviction after trial and by plea.  See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 322-323.  When those consequences are, from the defendant's perspective, similarly dire, even the smallest chance of success at trial may look attractive.  For Lee, deportation after some time in prison was not meaningfully different from deportation after somewhat less time; he says he accordingly would have rejected any plea leading to deportation in favor of throwing a "Hail Mary" at trial.  Pointing to Strickland, the Government urges that "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."  466 U. S., at 695.  That statement, however, was made in the context of discussing the presumption of reliability applied to judicial proceedings, which has no place where, as here, a defendant was deprived of a proceeding altogether.  When the inquiry is focused on what an individual defendant would have done, the possibility of even a highly improbable result may be pertinent to the extent it would have affected the defendant's decisionmaking.  Pp. 8-10.
     (c) Courts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleaded but for his attorney's deficiencies.  Rather, they should look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate a defendant's expressed preferences.  In the unusual circumstances of this case, Lee has adequately demonstrated a reasonable probability that he would have rejected the plea had he known that it would lead to mandatory deportation: Both Lee and his attorney testified that "deportation was the determinative issue" to Lee; his responses during his plea colloquy confirmed the importance he placed on deportation; and he had strong connections to the United States, while he had no ties to South Korea.
     The Government argues that Lee cannot "convince the court that a decision to reject the plea bargain would have been rational under the circumstances," Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 372, since deportation would almost certainly result from a trial.  Unlike the Government, this Court cannot say that it would be irrational for someone in Lee's position to risk additional prison time in exchange for holding on to some chance of avoiding deportation.  Pp. 10-13.
825 F. 3d 311, reversed and remanded.
     Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Alito, J., joined except as to Part I.  Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Opinion of the Court
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-327
JAE LEE, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 23, 2017]

     Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court.
     Petitioner Jae Lee was indicted on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute.  Although he has lived in this country for most of his life, Lee is not a United States citizen, and he feared that a criminal conviction might affect his status as a lawful permanent resident.  His attorney assured him there was nothing to worry about--the Government would not deport him if he pleaded guilty.  So Lee, who had no real defense to the charge, opted to accept a plea that carried a lesser prison sentence than he would have faced at trial.
     Lee's attorney was wrong: The conviction meant that Lee was subject to mandatory deportation from this country.  Lee seeks to vacate his conviction on the ground that, in accepting the plea, he received ineffective assistance of counsel in violation of the Sixth Amendment.  Everyone agrees that Lee received objectively unreasonable representation.  The question presented is whether he can show he was prejudiced as a result.
I
     Jae Lee moved to the United States from South Korea in 1982.  He was 13 at the time.  His parents settled the family in New York City, where they opened a small coffee shop.  After graduating from a business high school in Manhattan, Lee set out on his own to Memphis, Tennessee, where he started working at a restaurant.  After three years, Lee decided to try his hand at running a business.  With some assistance from his family, Lee opened the Mandarin Palace Chinese Restaurant in a Memphis suburb.  The Mandarin was a success, and Lee eventually opened a second restaurant nearby.  In the 35 years he has spent in the country, Lee has never returned to South Korea.  He did not become a United States citizen, living instead as a lawful permanent resident.
     At the same time he was running his lawful businesses, Lee also engaged in some illegitimate activity.  In 2008, a confidential informant told federal officials that Lee had sold the informant approximately 200 ecstasy pills and two ounces of hydroponic marijuana over the course of eight years.  The officials obtained a search warrant for Lee's house, where they found 88 ecstasy pills, three Valium tablets, $32,432 in cash, and a loaded rifle.  Lee admitted that the drugs were his and that he had given ecstasy to his friends.
     A grand jury indicted Lee on one count of possessing ecstasy with intent to distribute in violation of 21 U. S. C. §841(a)(1).  Lee retained an attorney and entered into plea discussions with the Government.  The attorney advised Lee that going to trial was "very risky" and that, if he pleaded guilty, he would receive a lighter sentence than he would if convicted at trial.  App. 167.  Lee informed his attorney of his noncitizen status and repeatedly asked him whether he would face deportation as a result of the criminal proceedings.  The attorney told Lee that he would not be deported as a result of pleading guilty.  Lee v. United States, 825 F. 3d 311, 313 (CA6 2016).  Based on that assurance, Lee accepted the plea and the District Court sentenced him to a year and a day in prison, though it deferred commencement of Lee's sentence for two months so that Lee could manage his restaurants over the holiday season.
     Lee quickly learned, however, that a prison term was not the only consequence of his plea.  Lee had pleaded guilty to what qualifies as an "aggravated felony" under the Immigration and Nationality Act, and a noncitizen convicted of such an offense is subject to mandatory deportation.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(B), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii); Calcano-Martinez v. INS, 533 U. S. 348, 350, n. 1 (2001).  Upon learning that he would be deported after serving his sentence, Lee filed a motion under 28 U. S. C. §2255 to vacate his conviction and sentence, arguing that his attorney had provided constitutionally ineffective assistance.
     At an evidentiary hearing on Lee's motion, both Lee and his plea-stage counsel testified that "deportation was the determinative issue in Lee's decision whether to accept the plea."  Report and Recommendation in No. 2:10-cv-02698 (WD Tenn.), pp. 6-7 (Report and Recommendation).  In fact, Lee explained, his attorney became "pretty upset because every time something comes up I always ask about immigration status," and the lawyer "always said why [are you] worrying about something that you don't need to worry about."  App. 170.  According to Lee, the lawyer assured him that if deportation was not in the plea agreement, "the government cannot deport you."  Ibid.  Lee's attorney testified that he thought Lee's case was a "bad case to try" because Lee's defense to the charge was weak.  Id., at 218-219.  The attorney nonetheless acknowledged that if he had known Lee would be deported upon pleading guilty, he would have advised him to go to trial.  Id., at 236, 244.  Based on the hearing testimony, a Magistrate Judge recommended that Lee's plea be set aside and his conviction vacated because he had received ineffective assistance of counsel.
     The District Court, however, denied relief.  Applying our two-part test for ineffective assistance claims from Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), the District Court concluded that Lee's counsel had performed deficiently by giving improper advice about the deportation consequences of the plea.  But, "[i]n light of the overwhelming evidence of Lee's guilt," Lee "would have almost certainly" been found guilty and received "a significantly longer prison sentence, and subsequent deportation," had he gone to trial.  Order in No. 2:10-cv-02698 (WD Tenn.), p. 24 (Order).  Lee therefore could not show he was  prejudiced by his attorney's erroneous advice.  Viewing  its resolution of the issue as debatable among jurists  of reason, the District Court granted a certificate of  appealability.
     The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the denial of relief.  On appeal, the Government conceded that the performance of Lee's attorney had been deficient.  To establish that he was prejudiced by that deficient performance, the court explained, Lee was required to show "a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  825 F. 3d, at 313 (quoting Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 59 (1985); internal quotation marks omitted).  Lee had "no bona fide defense, not even a weak one," so he "stood to gain nothing from going to trial but more prison time."  825 F. 3d, at 313, 316.  Relying on Circuit precedent holding that "no rational defendant charged with a deportable offense and facing overwhelming evidence of guilt would proceed to trial rather than take a plea deal with a shorter prison sentence," the Court of Appeals concluded that Lee could not show prejudice.  Id., at 314 (internal quotation marks omitted).  We granted certiorari.  580 U. S. ___ (2016).
II
     The Sixth Amendment guarantees a defendant the effective assistance of counsel at "critical stages of a criminal proceeding," including when he enters a guilty plea.  Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156, 165 (2012); Hill, 474 U. S., at 58.  To demonstrate that counsel was constitutionally ineffective, a defendant must show that counsel's representation "fell below an objective standard of reasonableness" and that he was prejudiced as a result.  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688, 692.  The first requirement is not at issue in today's case: The Government concedes that Lee's plea-stage counsel provided inadequate representation when he assured Lee that he would not be deported if he pleaded guilty.  Brief for United States 15.  The question is whether Lee can show he was prejudiced by that erroneous advice.
A
     A claim of ineffective assistance of counsel will often involve a claim of attorney error "during the course of a legal proceeding"--for example, that counsel failed to raise an objection at trial or to present an argument on appeal.  Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470, 481 (2000).  A defendant raising such a claim can demonstrate prejudice by showing "a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different."  Id., at 482 (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694; internal quotation marks omitted).
     But in this case counsel's "deficient performance arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of disputed reliability,  but rather to the forfeiture of a proceeding itself."  Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S., at 483.  When a defendant alleges his counsel's deficient performance led him to accept a guilty plea rather than go to trial, we do not ask whether, had he gone to trial, the result of that trial "would have been different" than the result of the plea bargain.  That is because, while we ordinarily "apply a strong presumption of reliability to judicial proceedings," "we cannot accord" any such presumption "to judicial proceedings that never took place."  Id., at 482-483 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     We instead consider whether the defendant was prejudiced by the "denial of the entire judicial proceeding . . . to which he had a right."  Id., at 483.  As we held in Hill v. Lockhart, when a defendant claims that his counsel's deficient performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  474 U. S., at 59.
     The dissent contends that a defendant must also show that he would have been better off going to trial.  That is true when the defendant's decision about going to trial turns on his prospects of success and those are affected by the attorney's error--for instance, where a defendant alleges that his lawyer should have but did not seek to suppress an improperly obtained confession.  Premo v. Moore, 562 U. S. 115, 118 (2011); cf., e.g., Hill, 474 U. S., at 59 (discussing failure to investigate potentially exculpatory evidence).
     Not all errors, however, are of that sort.  Here Lee knew, correctly, that his prospects of acquittal at trial were grim, and his attorney's error had nothing to do with that.  The error was instead one that affected Lee's understanding of the consequences of pleading guilty.  The Court confronted precisely this kind of error in Hill.  See id., at 60 ("the claimed error of counsel is erroneous advice as to eligibility for parole").  Rather than asking how a hypothetical trial would have played out absent the error, the Court considered whether there was an adequate showing that the defendant, properly advised, would have opted to go to trial.  The Court rejected the defendant's claim because he had "alleged no special circumstances that might support the conclusion that he placed particular emphasis on his parole eligibility in deciding whether or not to plead guilty."  Ibid.1
     Lee, on the other hand, argues he can establish prejudice under Hill because he never would have accepted a guilty plea had he known that he would be deported as a result.  Lee insists he would have gambled on trial, risking more jail time for whatever small chance there might be of an acquittal that would let him remain in the United States.2  The Government responds that, since Lee had no viable defense at trial, he would almost certainly have lost and found himself still subject to deportation, with a lengthier prison sentence to boot.  Lee, the Government contends, cannot show prejudice from accepting a plea where his only hope at trial was that something unexpected and unpredictable might occur that would lead to an acquittal.
B
     The Government asks that we, like the Court of Appeals below, adopt a per se rule that a defendant with no viable defense cannot show prejudice from the denial of his right to trial.  Brief for United States 26.  As a general matter, it makes sense that a defendant who has no realistic defense to a charge supported by sufficient evidence will be unable to carry his burden of showing prejudice from accepting a guilty plea.  But in elevating this general proposition to a per se rule, the Government makes two errors.  First, it forgets that categorical rules are ill suited to an inquiry that we have emphasized demands a "case-by-case examination" of the "totality of the evidence."  Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted); Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.  And, more fundamentally, the Government overlooks that the inquiry we prescribed in Hill v. Lockhart focuses on a defendant's decisionmaking, which may not turn solely on the likelihood of conviction after trial.
     A defendant without any viable defense will be highly likely to lose at trial.  And a defendant facing such long odds will rarely be able to show prejudice from accepting a guilty plea that offers him a better resolution than would be likely after trial.  But that is not because the prejudice inquiry in this context looks to the probability of a conviction for its own sake.  It is instead because defendants obviously weigh their prospects at trial in deciding whether to accept a plea.  See Hill, 474 U. S., at 59.  Where a defendant has no plausible chance of an acquittal at trial, it is highly likely that he will accept a plea if the Government offers one.
     But common sense (not to mention our precedent) recognizes that there is more to consider than simply the likelihood of success at trial.  The decision whether to plead guilty also involves assessing the respective consequences of a conviction after trial and by plea.  See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 322-323 (2001).  When those consequences are, from the defendant's perspective, similarly dire, even the smallest chance of success at trial may look attractive.  For example, a defendant with no realistic defense to a charge carrying a 20-year sentence may nevertheless choose trial, if the prosecution's plea offer is 18 years.  Here Lee alleges that avoiding deportation was the determinative factor for him; deportation after some time in prison was not meaningfully different from deportation after somewhat less time.  He says he accordingly would have rejected any plea leading to deportation--even if it shaved off prison time--in favor of throwing a "Hail Mary" at trial.
     The Government urges that, in such circumstances, the possibility of an acquittal after trial is "irrelevant to the prejudice inquiry," pointing to our statement in Strickland that "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."  466 U. S., at 695.  That statement, however, was made in the context of discussing the presumption of reliability we apply to judicial proceedings.  As we have explained, that presumption has no place where, as here, a defendant was deprived of a proceeding altogether.  Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S., at 483.  In a presumptively reliable proceeding, "the possibility of arbitrariness, whimsy, caprice, 'nullification,' and the like" must by definition be ignored.  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 695.  But where we are instead asking what an individual defendant would have done, the possibility of even a highly improbable result may be pertinent to the extent it  would have affected his decisionmaking.3
C
     "Surmounting Strickland's high bar is never an easy task," Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 371 (2010), and the strong societal interest in finality has "special force with respect to convictions based on guilty pleas."  United States v. Timmreck, 441 U. S. 780, 784 (1979).  Courts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleaded but for his attorney's deficiencies.  Judges should instead look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate a defendant's expressed preferences.
     In the unusual circumstances of this case, we conclude that Lee has adequately demonstrated a reasonable probability that he would have rejected the plea had he known that it would lead to mandatory deportation.  There is no question that "deportation was the determinative issue in Lee's decision whether to accept the plea deal."  Report and Recommendation, at 6-7; see also Order, at 14 (noting Government did not dispute testimony to this effect).  Lee asked his attorney repeatedly whether there was any risk of deportation from the proceedings, and both Lee and his attorney testified at the evidentiary hearing below that Lee would have gone to trial if he had known about the deportation consequences.  See Report and Recommendation, at 12 (noting "the undisputed fact that had Lee at all been aware that deportation was possible as a result of his guilty plea, he would . . . not have pled guilty"), adopted in relevant part in Order, at 15.
     Lee demonstrated as much at his plea colloquy: When the judge warned him that a conviction "could result in your being deported," and asked "[d]oes that at all affect your decision about whether you want to plead guilty or not," Lee answered "Yes, Your Honor."  App. 103.  When the judge inquired "[h]ow does it affect your decision," Lee responded "I don't understand," and turned to his attorney for advice.  Ibid.  Only when Lee's counsel assured him that the judge's statement was a "standard warning" was Lee willing to proceed to plead guilty.  Id., at 210.4
     There is no reason to doubt the paramount importance Lee placed on avoiding deportation.  Deportation is always "a particularly severe penalty," Padilla, 559 U. S., at 365 (internal quotation marks omitted), and we have "recognized that 'preserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence,' " id., at 368 (quoting St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322; alteration and some internal quotation marks omitted); see also Padilla, 559 U. S., at 364 ("[D]eportation is an integral part--indeed, sometimes the most important part--of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified crimes." (footnote omitted)).  At the time of his plea, Lee had lived in the United States for nearly three decades, had established two businesses in Tennessee, and was the only family member in the United States who could care for his elderly parents--both naturalized American citizens.  In contrast to these strong connections to the United States, there is no indication that he had any ties to South Korea; he had never returned there since leaving as a child.
     The Government argues, however, that under Padilla v. Kentucky, a defendant "must convince the court that a decision to reject the plea bargain would have been rational under the circumstances."  Id., at 372.  The Government contends that Lee cannot make that showing because he was going to be deported either way; going to trial would only result in a longer sentence before that inevitable consequence.  See Brief for United States 13, 21-23.
     We cannot agree that it would be irrational for a defendant in Lee's position to reject the plea offer in favor of trial.  But for his attorney's incompetence, Lee would have known that accepting the plea agreement would certainly lead to deportation.  Going to trial?  Almost certainly.  If deportation were the "determinative issue" for an individual in plea discussions, as it was for Lee; if that individual had strong connections to this country and no other, as did Lee; and if the consequences of taking a chance at trial were not markedly harsher than pleading, as in this case, that "almost" could make all the difference.  Balanced against holding on to some chance of avoiding deportation was a year or two more of prison time.  See id., at 6.  Not everyone in Lee's position would make the choice to reject the plea.  But we cannot say it would be irrational to do so.
     Lee's claim that he would not have accepted a plea had he known it would lead to deportation is backed by substantial and uncontroverted evidence.  Accordingly we conclude Lee has demonstrated a "reasonable probability that, but for [his] counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  Hill, 474 U. S., at 59.
*  *  *
     The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
     Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

Thomas, J., dissenting
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 16-327
JAE LEE, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 23, 2017]

     Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins except for Part I, dissenting.
     The Court today holds that a defendant can undo a guilty plea, well after sentencing and in the face of overwhelming evidence of guilt, because he would have chosen to pursue a defense at trial with no reasonable chance of success if his attorney had properly advised him of the immigration consequences of his plea.  Neither the Sixth Amendment nor this Court's precedents support that conclusion.  I respectfully dissent.
I
     As an initial matter, I remain of the view that the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution does not "requir[e] counsel to provide accurate advice concerning the potential removal consequences of a guilty plea."  Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356, 388 (2010) (Scalia, J., joined by Thomas, J., dissenting).  I would therefore affirm the Court of Appeals on the ground that the Sixth Amendment does not apply to the allegedly ineffective assistance in this case.
II
     Because the Court today announces a novel standard for prejudice at the plea stage, I further dissent on the separate ground that its standard does not follow from our precedents.
A
     The Court and both of the parties agree that the prejudice inquiry in this context is governed by Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984).  See ante, at 5; Brief for Petitioner 16; Brief for United States 15.  The Court in Strickland held that a defendant may establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel by showing that his "counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness" and, as relevant here, that the representation prejudiced the defendant by "actually ha[ving] an adverse effect on the defense."  466 U. S., at 688, 693.
     To establish prejudice under Strickland, a defendant must show a "reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different." Id., at 694. Strickland made clear that the "result of the proceeding" refers to the outcome of the defendant's criminal prosecution as a whole.  It defined "reasonable probability" as "a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome."  Ibid. (emphasis added).  And it explained that "[a]n error by counsel . . . does not warrant setting aside the judgment of a criminal proceeding if the error had no effect on the judgment."  Id., at 691 (emphasis added).
     The parties agree that this inquiry assumes an "objective" decisionmaker.  Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for United States 17.  That conclusion also follows directly from Strickland.  According to Strickland, the "assessment of the likelihood of a result more favorable to the defendant must exclude the possibility of arbitrariness, whimsy, caprice, 'nullification,' and the like."  466 U. S., at 695.  It does not depend on subjective factors such as "the idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker," including the decisionmaker's "unusual propensities toward harshness or leniency."  Ibid.  These factors are flatly "irrelevant to the prejudice inquiry."  Ibid.  In other words, "[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker."  Ibid.  Instead, "[t]he assessment of prejudice should proceed on the assumption that the decisionmaker is reasonably, conscientiously, and impartially applying the standards that govern the decision."  Ibid.
     When the Court extended the right to effective counsel to the plea stage, see Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), it held that "the same two-part standard" from Strickland applies.  474 U. S., at 57 (repeating Strickland's teaching that even an unreasonable error by counsel " 'does not warrant setting aside the judgment' " so long as the error " 'had no effect on the judgment' " (quoting 466 U. S., at 691)).  To be sure, the Court said--and the majority today emphasizes--that a defendant asserting an ineffectiveness claim at the plea stage "must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  474 U. S., at 59.  But that requirement merely reflects the reality that a defendant cannot show that the outcome of his case would have been different if he would have accepted his current plea anyway.*  In other words, the defendant's ability to show that he would have gone to trial is necessary, but not sufficient, to establish prejudice.
     The Hill Court went on to explain that Strickland's two-part test applies the same way in the plea context as in other contexts.  In particular, the "assessment" will primarily turn on "a prediction whether," in the absence of counsel's error, "the evidence" of the defendant's innocence or guilt "likely would have changed the outcome" of the proceeding.  474 U. S., at 59.  Thus, a defendant cannot show prejudice where it is " 'inconceivable' " not only that he would have gone to trial, but also " 'that if he had done so he either would have been acquitted or, if convicted, would nevertheless have been given a shorter sentence than he actually received.' "  Ibid. (quoting Evans v. Meyer, 742 F. 2d 371, 375 (CA7 1984) (emphasis added)).  In sum, the proper inquiry requires a defendant to show both that he would have rejected his plea and gone to trial and that he would likely have obtained a more favorable result in the end.
     To the extent Hill was ambiguous about the standard, our precedents applying it confirm this interpretation.  In Premo v. Moore, 562 U. S. 115 (2011), the Court emphasized that "strict adherence to the Strickland standard" is "essential" when reviewing claims about attorney error "at the plea bargain stage."  Id., at 125.  In that case, the defendant argued that his counsel was constitutionally ineffective because he had failed to seek suppression of his confession before he pleaded no contest.  In analyzing the prejudice issue, the Court did not focus solely on whether the suppression hearing would have turned out differently, or whether the defendant would have chosen to go to trial.  It focused as well on the weight of the evidence against the defendant and the fact that he likely would not have obtained a more favorable result at trial, regardless of whether he succeeded at the suppression hearing.  See id., at 129 (describing the State's case as "formidable" and observing that "[t]he bargain counsel struck" in the plea agreement was "a favorable one" to the defendant compared to what might have happened at trial).
     The Court in Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134 (2012), took a similar approach.  In that case, the Court extended Hill to hold that counsel could be constitutionally ineffective for failing to communicate a plea deal to a defendant.  566 U. S., at 145.  The Court emphasized that, in addition to showing a reasonable probability that the defendant "would have accepted the earlier plea offer," it is also "necessary" to show a "reasonable probability that the end result of the criminal process would have been more favorable by reason of a plea to a lesser charge or a sentence of less prison time."  Id., at 147; see also id., at 150 (the defendant "must show not only a reasonable probability that he would have accepted the lapsed plea but also a reasonable probability that the prosecution would have adhered to the agreement and that it would have been accepted by the trial court" (emphasis added)).  In short, the Court did not focus solely on whether the defendant would have accepted the plea.  It instead required the defendant to show that the ultimate outcome would have been different.
     Finally, the Court's decision in Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156 (2012), is to the same effect.  In that case, the Court concluded that counsel may be constitutionally ineffective by causing a defendant to reject a plea deal he should have accepted.  Id., at 164.  The Court again emphasized that the prejudice inquiry requires a showing that the criminal prosecution would ultimately have ended differently for the defendant--not merely that the defendant would have accepted the deal.  The Court stated that the defendant in those circumstances "must show" a reasonable probability that "the conviction or sentence, or both, under the offer's terms would have been less severe than under the judgment and sentence that in fact were imposed."  Ibid.
     These precedents are consistent with our cases governing the right to effective assistance of counsel in other contexts.  This Court has held that the right to effective counsel applies to all "critical stages of the criminal proceedings."  Montejo v. Louisiana, 556 U. S. 778, 786 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Those stages include not only "the entry of a guilty plea," but also "arraignments, postindictment interrogation, [and] postindictment lineups."  Frye, supra, at 140 (citing cases).  In those circumstances, the Court has not held that the prejudice inquiry focuses on whether that stage of the proceeding would have ended differently.  It instead has made clear that the prejudice inquiry is the same as in Strickland, which requires a defendant to establish that he would have been better off in the end had his counsel not erred. See 466 U. S., at 694.
B
     The majority misapplies this Court's precedents when it concludes that a defendant may establish prejudice by showing only that "he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial," without showing that "the result of that trial would have been different than the result of the plea bargain."  Ante, at 5, 6 (internal quotation marks omitted).  In reaching this conclusion, the Court relies almost exclusively on the single line from Hill that "the defendant must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to trial."  474 U. S., at 59.  For the reasons explained above, that sentence prescribes the threshold showing a defendant must make to establish Strickland prejudice where a defendant has accepted a guilty plea.  In Hill, the Court concluded that the defendant had not made that showing, so it rejected his claim.  The Court did not, however, further hold that a defendant can establish prejudice by making that showing alone.
     The majority also relies on a case that arises in a completely different context, Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470 (2000).  There, the Court considered a defendant's claim that his attorney failed to file a notice of appeal.  See id., at 474.  The Court observed that the lawyer's failure to file the notice of appeal "arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of disputed reliability," but instead to "the forfeiture of a proceeding itself."  Id., at 483.  The Court today observes that petitioner's guilty plea meant that he did not go to trial.  Ante, at 5.  Because that trial " 'never took place,' " the Court reasons, we cannot " 'apply a strong presumption of reliability' " to it.  Ante, at 5-6 (quoting Flores-Ortega, supra, at 482-483).  And because the presumption of reliability does not apply, we may not depend on Strickland's statement "that '[a] defendant has no entitlement to the luck of a lawless decisionmaker.' "  Ante, at 8 (quoting 466 U. S., at 695).  This point is key to the majority's conclusion that petitioner would have chosen to gamble on a trial even though he had no viable defense.
     The majority's analysis, however, is directly contrary to Hill, which instructed a court undertaking a prejudice analysis to apply a presumption of reliability to the hypothetical trial that would have occurred had the defendant not pleaded guilty.  After explaining that a court should engage in a predictive inquiry about the likelihood of a defendant securing a better result at trial, the Court said: "As we explained in Strickland v. Washington, supra, these predictions of the outcome at a possible trial, where necessary, should be made objectively, without regard for the 'idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker.' "  474 U. S., at 59-60 (quoting 466 U. S., at 695).  That quote comes from the same paragraph in Strickland as the discussion about the presumption of reliability that attaches to the trial.  In other words, Hill instructs that the prejudice inquiry must presume that the foregone trial would have been reliable.
     The majority responds that Hill made statements about presuming a reliable trial only in "discussing how courts should analyze 'predictions of the outcome at a possible trial,' " which "will not always be 'necessary.' "  Ante, at 10, n. 3 (quoting Hill, 474 U. S., at 59-60).  I agree that such an inquiry is not always necessary--it is not necessary where, as in Hill, the defendant cannot show at the threshold that he would have rejected his plea and chosen to go to trial.  But that caveat says nothing about the application of the presumption of reliability when a defendant can make that threshold showing.  
     In any event, the Court in Hill recognized that guilty pleas are themselves generally reliable.  Guilty pleas "rarely" give rise to the "concern that unfair procedures may have resulted in the conviction of an innocent defendant."  Id., at 58 (internal quotation marks omitted).  That is because "a counseled plea of guilty is an admission of factual guilt so reliable that, where voluntary and intelligent, it quite validly removes the issue of factual guilt from the case."  Menna v. New York, 423 U. S. 61, 62, n. 2 (1975) (per curiam) (emphasis deleted).  Guilty pleas, like completed trials, are therefore entitled to the protections against collateral attack that the Strickland prejudice standard affords.
     Finally, the majority does not dispute that the prejudice inquiry in Frye and Lafler focused on whether the defendant established a reasonable probability of a different outcome.  The majority instead distinguishes those cases on the ground that they involved a defendant who did not accept a guilty plea.  See ante, at 7, n. 1.  According to the majority, those cases "articulated a different way to show prejudice, suited to the context of pleas not accepted."  Ibid.  But the Court in Frye and Lafler (and Hill, for that matter) did not purport to establish a "different" test for prejudice.  To the contrary, the Court repeatedly stated that it was applying the "same two-part standard" from Strickland.  Hill, supra, at 57 (emphasis added); accord, Frye, 566, U. S., at 140 ("Hill established that claims of ineffective assistance of counsel in the plea bargain context are governed by the two-part test set forth in Strickland"); Lafler, 566 U. S., at 162-163 (applying Strickland).
     The majority today abandons any pretense of applying Strickland to claims of ineffective assistance of counsel that arise at the plea stage.  It instead concludes that one standard applies when a defendant goes to trial (Strickland); another standard applies when a defendant accepts a plea (Hill); and yet another standard applies when counsel does not apprise the defendant of an available plea or when the defendant rejects a plea (Frye and Lafler).  That approach leaves little doubt that the Court has "open[ed] a whole new field of constitutionalized criminal procedure"--"plea-bargaining law"--despite its repeated assurances that it has been applying the same Strickland standard all along.  Lafler, supra, at 175 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  In my view, we should take the Court's precedents at their word and conclude that "[a]n error by counsel . . . does not warrant setting aside the judgment of a criminal proceeding if the error had no effect on the judgment."  Strickland, 466, U. S., at 691.   
III
     Applying the ordinary Strickland standard in this case, I do not think a defendant in petitioner's circumstances could show a reasonable probability that the result of his criminal proceeding would have been different had he not pleaded guilty.  Petitioner does not dispute that he possessed large quantities of illegal drugs or that the Government had secured a witness who had purchased the drugs directly from him.  In light of this "overwhelming evidence of . . . guilt," 2014 WL 1260388, *15 (WD Tenn., Mar. 20, 2014), the Court of Appeals concluded that petitioner had "no bona fide defense, not even a weak one," 825 F. 3d 311, 316 (CA6 2016).  His only chance of succeeding would have been to "thro[w] a 'Hail Mary' at trial."  Ante, at 8.  As I have explained, however, the Court in Strickland expressly foreclosed relying on the possibility of a "Hail Mary" to establish prejudice.  See supra, at 3.  Strickland made clear that the prejudice assessment should "proceed on the assumption that the decisionmaker is reasonably, conscientiously, and impartially applying the standards that govern the decision."  466 U. S., at 695.
     In the face of overwhelming evidence of guilt and in the absence of a bona fide defense, a reasonable court or jury applying the law to the facts of this case would find the defendant guilty.  There is no reasonable probability of any other verdict.  A defendant in petitioner's shoes, therefore, would have suffered the same deportation consequences regardless of whether he accepted a plea or went to trial.  He is thus plainly better off for having accepted his plea: had he gone to trial, he not only would have faced the same deportation consequences, he also likely would have received a higher prison sentence.  Finding that petitioner has established prejudice in these circumstances turns Strickland on its head.
IV
     The Court's decision today will have pernicious consequences for the criminal justice system.  This Court has shown special solicitude for the plea process, which brings "stability" and "certainty" to "the criminal justice system."  Premo, 562 U. S., at 132.  The Court has warned that "the prospect of collateral challenges" threatens to undermine these important values.  Ibid.  And we have explained that "[p]rosecutors must have assurance that a plea will not be undone years later," lest they "forgo plea bargains that would benefit defendants," which would be "a result favorable to no one."  Id., at 125.
     The Court today provides no assurance that plea deals negotiated in good faith with guilty defendants will remain final.  For one thing, the Court's artificially cabined standard for prejudice in the plea context is likely to generate a high volume of challenges to existing and future plea agreements.  Under the majority's standard, defendants bringing these challenges will bear a relatively low burden to show prejudice.  Whereas a defendant asserting an ordinary claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must prove that the ultimate outcome of his case would have been different, the Court today holds that a defendant who pleaded guilty need show only that he would have rejected his plea and gone to trial.  This standard does not appear to be particularly demanding, as even a defendant who has only the "smallest chance of success at trial"--relying on nothing more than a " 'Hail Mary' "--may be able to satisfy it.  Ante, at 7, 8.  For another, the Court does not limit its holding to immigration consequences.  Under its rule, so long as a defendant alleges that his counsel omitted or misadvised him on a piece of information during the plea process that he considered of "paramount importance," ante, at 10, he could allege a plausible claim of ineffective assistance of counsel.
     In addition to undermining finality, the Court's rule will impose significant costs on courts and prosecutors.  Under the Court's standard, a challenge to a guilty plea will be a highly fact-intensive, defendant-specific undertaking.  Petitioner suggests that each claim will "at least" require a "hearing to get th[e] facts on the table."  Tr. of Oral Arg. 7.  Given that more than 90 percent of criminal convictions are the result of guilty pleas, Frye, 566 U. S., at 143, the burden of holding evidentiary hearings on these claims could be significant.  In circumstances where a defendant has admitted his guilt, the evidence against him is overwhelming, and he has no bona fide defense strategy, I see no justification for imposing these costs.
*  *  *
     For these reasons, I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.  I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 The dissent also relies heavily on Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134 (2012), and Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156 (2012).  Those cases involved defendants who alleged that, but for their attorney's incompetence, they would have accepted a plea deal--not, as here and as in Hill, that they would have rejected a plea.  In both Frye and Lafler, the Court highlighted this difference: Immediately following the sentence that the dissent plucks from Frye, post, at 5 (opinion of Thomas, J.), the Court explained that its "application of Strickland to the instances of an uncommunicated, lapsed plea does nothing to alter the standard laid out in Hill."  566 U. S., at 148 ("Hill was correctly decided and applies in the context in which it arose").  Lafler, decided the same day as Frye, reiterated that "[i]n contrast to Hill, here the ineffective advice led not to an offer's acceptance but to its rejection."  566 U. S., at 163.  Frye and Lafler articulated a different way to show prejudice, suited to the context of pleas not accepted, not an additional element to the Hill inquiry.  See Frye, 566 U. S., at 148 ("Hill does not . . . provide the sole means for demonstrating prejudice arising from the deficient performance of counsel during plea negotiations").  Contrary to the dissent's assertion, post, at 8-9, we do not depart from Strickland's requirement of prejudice.  The issue is how the required prejudice may be shown.
Footnote 2 Lee also argues that he can show prejudice because, had his attorney advised him that he would be deported if he accepted the Government's plea offer, he would have bargained for a plea deal that did not result in certain deportation.  Given our conclusion that Lee can show prejudice based on the reasonable probability that he would have gone to trial, we need not reach this argument.
Footnote 3 The dissent makes much of the fact that Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), also noted that courts should ignore the "idiosyncrasies of the particular decisionmaker."  Post, at 7 (quoting Hill, 474 U. S., at 60; internal quotation marks omitted).  But Hill made this statement in discussing how courts should analyze "predictions of the outcome at a possible trial."  Id., at 59-60.  As we have explained, assessing the effect of some types of attorney errors on defendants' decisionmaking involves such predictions: Where an attorney error allegedly affects how a trial would have played out, we analyze that error's effects on a defendant's decisionmaking by making a prediction of the likely trial outcome.  But, as Hill recognized, such predictions will not always be "necessary."  Id., at 60.  Such a prediction is neither necessary nor appropriate where, as here, the error is one that is not alleged to be pertinent to a trial outcome, but is instead alleged to have affected a defendant's understanding of the consequences of his guilty plea.
Footnote 4 Several courts have noted that a judge's warnings at a plea colloquy may undermine a claim that the defendant was prejudiced by his attorney's misadvice.  See, e.g., United States v. Newman, 805 F. 3d 1143, 1147 (CADC 2015); United States v. Kayode, 777 F. 3d 719, 728-729 (CA5 2014); United States v. Akinsade, 686 F. 3d 248, 253 (CA4 2012); Boyd v. Yukins, 99 Fed. Appx. 699, 705 (CA6 2004).  The present case involves a claim of ineffectiveness of counsel extending to advice specifically undermining the judge's warnings themselves, which the defendant contemporaneously stated on the record he did not understand.  There has been no suggestion here that the sentencing judge's statements at the plea colloquy cured any prejudice from the erroneous advice of Lee's counsel.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1* It is not enough for a defendant to show that he would have obtained a better plea agreement.  "[A] defendant has no right to be offered a plea," Missouri v. Frye, 566 U. S. 134, 148 (2012); Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. 156, 168 (2012), and this Court has never concluded that a defendant could show a "reasonable probability" of a different result based on a purely hypothetical plea offer subject to absolute executive discretion.





United States Supreme Court
MASLENJAK v. UNITED STATES, (2017)
No. 16-309
Argued: April 26, 2017    Decided: June 22, 2017


Petitioner Divna Maslenjak is an ethnic Serb who resided in Bosnia during the 1990's, when a civil war divided the new country.  In 1998, she and her family sought refugee status in the United States.  Interviewed under oath, Maslenjak explained that the family feared persecution from both sides of the national rift: Muslims would mistreat them because of their ethnicity, and Serbs would abuse them because Maslenjak's husband had evaded service in the Bosnian Serb Army by absconding to Serbia.  Persuaded of the Maslenjaks' plight, American officials granted them refugee status.  Years later, Maslenjak applied for U. S. citizenship.  In the application process, she swore that she had never given false information to a government official while applying for an immigration benefit or lied to an official to gain entry into the United States.  She was naturalized as a U. S. citizen.  But it soon emerged that her professions of honesty were false: Maslenjak had known all along that her husband spent the war years not secreted in Serbia, but serving as an officer in the Bosnian Serb Army.       
          The Government charged Maslenjak with knowingly "procur[ing], contrary to law, [her] naturalization," in violation of 18 U. S. C. §1425(a).  According to the Government's theory, Maslenjak violated §1425(a) because, in the course of procuring her naturalization, she broke another law: 18 U. S. C. §1015(a), which prohibits knowingly making a false statement under oath in a naturalization proceeding.  The District Court instructed the jury that, to secure a conviction under §1425(a), the Government need not prove that Maslenjak's false statements were material to, or influenced, the decision to approve her citizenship application.  The Sixth Circuit affirmed the conviction, holding that if Maslenjak made false statements violating §1015(a) and procured naturalization, then she also violated §1425(a).
Held:
     1. The text of §1425(a) makes clear that, to secure a conviction, the Government must establish that the defendant's illegal act played a role in her acquisition of citizenship.  To "procure . . . naturalization" means to obtain it.  And the adverbial phrase "contrary to law" specifies how a person must procure naturalization so as to run afoul of the statute: illegally.  Thus, someone "procure[s], contrary to law, naturalization" when she obtains citizenship illegally.  As ordinary usage demonstrates, the most natural understanding of that phrase is that the illegal act must have somehow contributed to the obtaining of citizenship.  To get citizenship unlawfully is to get it through an unlawful means--and that is just to say that an illegality played some role in its acquisition.
     The Government's contrary view--that §1425(a) requires only a violation in the course of procuring naturalization--falters on the way language naturally works.  Suppose that an applicant for citizenship fills out the paperwork in a government office with a knife tucked away in her handbag.  She has violated the law against possessing a weapon in a federal building, and she has done so in the course of procuring citizenship, but nobody would say she has "procure[d]" her citizenship "contrary to law."  That is because the violation of law and the acquisition of citizenship in that example are merely coincidental: The one has no causal relation to the other.  Although the Government attempts to define such examples out of the statute, that effort falls short for multiple reasons.  Most important, the Government's attempted carve-out does nothing to alter the linguistic understanding that gives force to the examples the Government would exclude. Under ordinary rules of language usage, §1425(a) demands a causal or means-end connection between a legal violation and naturalization.
     The broader statutory context reinforces the point, because the Government's reading would create a profound mismatch between the requirements for naturalization and those for denaturalization: Some legal violations that do not justify denying citizenship would nonetheless justify revoking it later.  For example, lies told out of "embarrassment, fear, or a desire for privacy" (rather than "for the purpose of obtaining [immigration] benefits") are not generally disqualifying under the statutory requirement of "good moral character."  Kungys v. United States, 485 U. S. 759, 780; 8 U. S. C. §1101(f)(6).  But under the Government's reading of §1425(a), any lie told in the naturalization process would provide a basis for rescinding citizenship.  The Government could thus take away on one day what it was required to give the day before.  And by so unmooring the revocation of citizenship from its award, the Government opens the door to a world of disquieting consequences--which this Court would need far stronger textual support to believe Congress intended.  The statute Congress passed, most naturally read, strips a person of citizenship not when she committed any illegal act during the naturalization process, but only when that act played some role in her naturalization.  Pp. 4-9.
     2. When the underlying illegality alleged in a §1425(a) prosecution is a false statement to government officials, a jury must decide whether the false statement so altered the naturalization process as to have influenced an award of citizenship.  Because the entire naturalization process is set up to provide little room for subjective preferences or personal whims, that inquiry is properly framed in objective terms: To decide whether a defendant acquired citizenship by means of a lie, a jury must evaluate how knowledge of the real facts would have affected a reasonable government official properly applying naturalization law.  
     If the facts the defendant misrepresented are themselves legally disqualifying for citizenship, the jury can make quick work of that inquiry.  In such a case, the defendant's lie must have played a role in her naturalization. But that is not the only time a jury can find that a defendant's lies had the requisite bearing on a naturalization decision, because lies can also throw investigators off a trail leading to disqualifying facts.  When relying on such an investigation-based theory, the Government must make a two-part showing.  Initially, the Government must prove that the misrepresented fact was sufficiently relevant to a naturalization criterion that it would have prompted reasonable officials, "seeking only evidence concerning citizenship qualifications," to undertake further investigation.  Kungys, 485 U. S., at 774, n. 9.  If that much is true, the inquiry turns to the prospect that such an investigation would have borne disqualifying fruit.  The Government need not show definitively that its investigation would have unearthed a disqualifying fact.  It need only establish that the investigation "would predictably have disclosed" some legal disqualification.  Id., at 774.  If that is so, the defendant's misrepresentation contributed to the citizenship award in the way §1425(a) requires.  This demanding but still practicable causal standard reflects the real-world attributes of cases premised on what an unhindered investigation would have found.
     When the Government can make its two-part showing, the defendant may overcome it by establishing that she was qualified for citizenship (even though she misrepresented facts that suggested the opposite).  Thus, whatever the Government shows with respect to a thwarted investigation, qualification for citizenship is a complete defense to a prosecution under §1425(a).  Pp. 10-15.
     3. Measured against this analysis, the jury instructions in this case were in error.  The jury needed to find more than an unlawful false statement.  However, it was not asked to--and so did not--make any of the necessary determinations.  The Government's assertion that any instructional error was harmless is left for resolution on remand.  Pp. 15-16.
821 F. 3d 675, vacated and remanded.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Gorsuch, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, in which Thomas, J., joined.  Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.  

Opinion of the Court
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-309
DIVNA MASLENJAK, PETITIONER v.UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 22, 2017]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     A federal statute, 18 U. S. C. §1425(a), makes it a crime to "knowingly procure[ ], contrary to law, the naturalization of any person."  And when someone is convicted under §1425(a) of unlawfully procuring her own naturalization, her citizenship is automatically revoked.  See 8 U. S. C. §1451(e).  In this case, we consider what the Government must prove to obtain such a conviction.  We hold that the Government must establish that an illegal act by the defendant played some role in her acquisition of citizenship.  When the illegal act is a false statement, that means demonstrating that the defendant lied about facts that would have mattered to an immigration official, because they would have justified denying naturalization or would predictably have led to other facts warranting that result.
I
     Petitioner Divna Maslenjak is an ethnic Serb who resided in Bosnia during the 1990's, when a civil war between Serbs and Muslims divided the new country.  In 1998, she and her family (her husband Ratko Maslenjak and their two children) met with an American immigration official to seek refugee status in the United States.  Interviewed under oath, Maslenjak explained that the family feared persecution in Bosnia from both sides of the national rift.  Muslims, she said, would mistreat them because of their ethnicity.  And Serbs, she testified, would abuse them because her husband had evaded service in the Bosnian Serb Army by absconding to Serbia--where he remained hidden, apart from the family, for some five years.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 58a-60a.  Persuaded of the Maslenjaks' plight, American officials granted them refugee status, and they immigrated to the United States in 2000.
     Six years later, Maslenjak applied for naturalization.  Question 23 on the application form asked whether she had ever given "false or misleading information" to a government official while applying for an immigration benefit; question 24 similarly asked whether she had ever "lied to a[ ] government official to gain entry or admission into the United States."  Id., at 72a.  Maslenjak answered "no" to both questions, while swearing under oath that her replies were true.  Id., at 72a, 74a.  She also swore that all her written answers were true during a subsequent interview with an immigration official.  In August 2007, Maslenjak was naturalized as a U. S. citizen.
     But Maslenjak's professions of honesty were false: In fact, she had made up much of the story she told to immigration officials when seeking refuge in this country.  Her fiction began to unravel at around the same time she applied for citizenship.  In 2006, immigration officials confronted Maslenjak's husband Ratko with records showing that he had not fled conscription during the Bosnian civil war; rather, he had served as an officer in the Bosnian Serb Army.  And not only that: He had served in a brigade that participated in the Srebrenica massacre--a slaughter of some 8,000 Bosnian Muslim civilians.  Within a year, the Government convicted Ratko on charges of making false statements on immigration documents.  The newly naturalized Maslenjak attempted to prevent Ratko's deportation.  During proceedings on that matter, Maslenjak admitted she had known all along that Ratko spent the war years not secreted in Serbia but fighting in  Bosnia.
     As a result, the Government charged Maslenjak with knowingly "procur[ing], contrary to law, [her] naturalization," in violation of 18 U. S. C. §1425(a).  According to the Government's theory, Maslenjak violated §1425(a) because, in the course of procuring her naturalization, she broke another law: 18 U. S. C. §1015(a), which prohibits knowingly making a false statement under oath in a naturalization proceeding.  The false statements the Government invoked were Maslenjak's answers to questions 23 and 24 on the citizenship application (stating that she had not lied in seeking refugee status) and her corresponding statements in the citizenship interview.  Those statements, the Government argued to the District Court, need not have affected the naturalization decision to support a conviction under §1425(a).  The court agreed: Over Maslenjak's objection, it instructed the jury that a conviction was proper so long as the Government "prove[d] that one of the defendant's statements was false"--even if the statement was not "material" and "did not influence the decision to approve [her] naturalization."  App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a.  The jury returned a guilty verdict; and the District Court, based on that finding, stripped Maslenjak of her citizenship.  See 8 U. S. C. §1451(e).
     The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the conviction.  As relevant here, the Sixth Circuit upheld the District Court's instructions that Maslenjak's false statements need not have influenced the naturalization decision.  If, the Court of Appeals held, Maslenjak made false statements violating §1015(a) and she procured naturalization, then she also violated §1425(a)--irrespective of whether the false statements played any role in her obtaining citizenship.  See 821 F. 3d 675, 685-686 (2016).  That decision created a conflict in the Circuit Courts.1  We granted certiorari to resolve it, 580 U. S. ___ (2017), and we now vacate the Sixth Circuit's judgment.
II
A
     Section 1425(a), the parties agree, makes it a crime to commit some other illegal act in connection with naturalization.  But the parties dispute the nature of the required connection.  Maslenjak argues that the relationship must be "causal" in kind: A person "procures" her naturalization "contrary to law," she contends, only if a predicate crime in some way "contribut[ed]" to her gaining citizenship.  Brief for Petitioner 21.  By contrast, the Government proposes a basically chronological link: Section 1425(a), it urges, "punishes the commission of other violations of law in the course of procuring naturalization"--even if the illegality could not have had any effect on the naturalization decision.  Brief for United States 14 (emphasis added).  We conclude that Maslenjak has the better of this argument.
     We begin, as usual, with the statutory text.  In ordinary usage, "to procure" something is "to get possession of" it.  Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1809 (2002); accord, Black's Law Dictionary 1401 (10th ed. 2014) (defining "procure" as "[t]o obtain (something), esp. by special effort or means").  So to "procure . . . naturalization" means to obtain naturalization (or, to use another word, citizenship).  The adverbial phrase "contrary to law," wedged in between "procure" and "naturalization," then specifies how a person must procure naturalization so as to run afoul of the statute: in contravention of the law--or, in a word, illegally.  Putting the pieces together, someone "procure[s], contrary to law, naturalization" when she obtains citizenship illegally.
     What, then, does that whole phrase mean?  The most natural understanding is that the illegal act must have somehow contributed to the obtaining of citizenship.  Consider if someone said to you: "John obtained that painting illegally."  You might imagine that he stole it off the walls of a museum.  Or that he paid for it with a forged check.  Or that he impersonated the true buyer when the auction house delivered it.  But in all events, you would imagine illegal acts in some kind of means-end relation--or otherwise said, in some kind of causal relation--to the painting's acquisition.  If someone said to you, "John obtained that painting illegally, but his unlawful acts did not play any role in his obtaining it," you would not have a clue what the statement meant.  You would think it nonsense--or perhaps the opening of a riddle.  That is because if no illegal act contributed at all to getting the painting, then the painting would not have been gotten illegally.  And the same goes for naturalization.  If whatever illegal conduct occurring within the naturalization process was a causal dead-end--if, so to speak, the ripples from that act could not have reached the decision to award citizenship--then the act cannot support a charge that the applicant obtained naturalization illegally.  The conduct, though itself illegal, would not also make the obtaining of citizenship so.  To get citizenship unlawfully, we understand, is to get it through an unlawful means--and that is just to say that an illegality played some role in its acquisition.2
     The Government's contrary view--that §1425(a) requires only a "violation[ ] of law in the course of procuring naturalization"--falters on the way language naturally works.  Brief for United States 14.  Return for a moment to our artwork example.  Imagine this time that John made an illegal turn while driving to the auction house to purchase a painting.  Would you say that he had "procured the painting illegally" because he happened to violate the law in the course of obtaining it?  Not likely.  And again, the same is true with respect to naturalization.  Suppose that an applicant for citizenship fills out the necessary paperwork in a government office with a knife tucked away in her handbag (but never mentioned or used).  She has violated the law--specifically, a statute criminalizing the possession of a weapon in a federal building.  See 18 U. S. C. §930.  And she has surely done so "in the course of" procuring citizenship.  But would you say, using English as you ordinarily would, that she has "procure[d]" her citizenship "contrary to law" (or, as you would really speak, "illegally")?  Once again, no.  That is because the violation of law and the acquisition of citizenship are in that example merely coincidental: The one has no causal relation to the other.
     The Government responds to such examples by seeking to define them out of the statute, but that effort falls short for multiple reasons.  According to the Government, the laws to which §1425(a) speaks are only laws "pertaining to naturalization."  Brief for United States 20.  But to begin with, that claim fails on its own terms.  The Government's proposed limitation has no basis in §1425(a)'s text (which refers to "law" generally); it is a deus ex machina--rationalized only by calling it "necessary," Tr. of Oral Arg. 39, and serving only to get the Government out of a tight interpretive spot.  Indeed, the Government does not really buy its own argument: At another point, it asserts that an applicant for citizenship can violate §1425(a) by bribing a government official, see Brief for United States 16--even though the law against that conduct has nothing in particular to do with naturalization.  See 18 U. S. C. §201(b)(1).  And still more important, the Government's (sometime) carve-out does nothing to alter the linguistic understanding that gives force to the examples the Government would exclude--and that applies just as well to every application that would remain.  Laws pertaining to naturalization, in other words, are subject to the same rules of language usage as laws concerning other subjects.  And under those rules, as we have shown, §1425(a) demands a means-end connection between a legal violation and naturalization.  See supra, at 5-6.  Take §1015(a)'s bar on making false statements in connection with naturalization--the prototypical §1425(a) predicate, and the one at issue here.  If such a statement (in an interview, say) has no bearing at all on the decision to award citizenship, then it cannot render that award--as §1425(a) requires--illegally gained.
     The broader statutory context reinforces that point, because the Government's reading would create a profound mismatch between the requirements for naturalization on the one hand and those for denaturalization on the other.  See West Virginia Univ. Hospitals, Inc. v. Casey, 499 U. S. 83, 101 (1991) ("[I]t is our role to make sense rather than nonsense out of the corpus juris").  The immigration statute requires all applicants for citizenship to have "good moral character," and largely defines that term through a list of unlawful or unethical behaviors. 8 U. S. C. §§1427(a)(3), 1101(f ).3  On the Government's theory, some legal violations that do not justify denying citizenship under that definition would nonetheless justify revoking it later.  Again, false statements under §1015(a) offer an apt illustration.  The statute's description of "good moral character" singles out a specific class of lies--"false testimony for the purpose of obtaining [immigration] benefits"--as a reason to deny naturalization.  8 U. S. C. §1101(f )(6).  By contrast, "[w]illful misrepresentations made for other reasons, such as embarrassment, fear, or a desire for privacy, were not deemed sufficiently culpable to brand the applicant as someone who lacks good moral character"--and so are not generally disqualifying.  Kungys v. United States, 485 U. S. 759, 780 (1988) (quoting Supplemental Brief for United States 12).  But under the Government's reading of §1425(a), a lie told in the naturalization process--even out of embarrassment, fear, or a desire for privacy--would always provide a basis for rescinding citizenship.  The Government could thus take away on one day what it was required to give the day before.
     And by so wholly unmooring the revocation of citizenship from its award, the Government opens the door to a world of disquieting consequences--which we would need far stronger textual support to believe Congress intended.  Consider the kinds of questions a person seeking citizenship confronts on the standard application form.  Says one: "Have you EVER been . . . in any way associated with[ ] any organization, association, fund, foundation, party, club, society, or similar group[?]"  Form N-400, Application for Naturalization 12 (2016), online at http://www. uscis.gov/n-400 (as last visited June 20, 2017) (bold in original).  Asks another: "Have you EVER committed . . . a crime or offense for which you were NOT arrested?"  Id., at 14.  Suppose, for reasons of embarrassment or what-have-you, a person concealed her membership in an online support group or failed to disclose a prior speeding violation.  Under the Government's view, a prosecutor could scour her paperwork and bring a §1425(a) charge on that meager basis, even many years after she became a citizen.  That would give prosecutors nearly limitless leverage--and afford newly naturalized Americans precious little security.  Small wonder that Congress, in enacting §1425(a), did not go so far as the Government claims.  The statute it passed, most naturally read, strips a person of citizenship not when she committed any illegal act during the naturalization process, but only when that act played some role in her naturalization.
B
     That conclusion leaves us with a more operational question: How should §1425(a)'s requirement of causal influence apply in practice, when charges are brought under that law?4  Because the proper analysis may vary with the nature of the predicate crime, we confine our discussion of that issue to the kind of underlying illegality alleged here: a false statement made to government officials.  Such conduct can affect a naturalization decision in a single, significant way--by distorting the Government's understanding of the facts when it investigates, and then adjudicates, an application.  So the issue a jury must decide in a case like this one is whether a false statement sufficiently altered those processes as to have influenced an award  of citizenship.
     The answer to that question, like the naturalization decision itself, turns on objective legal criteria.  Congress has prescribed specific eligibility standards for new citizens, respecting such matters as length of residency and "physical[ ] presen[ce]," understanding of English and American government, and (as previously mentioned) "good moral character," with all its many specific components.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1423(a), 1427(a); supra, at 8.  Government officials are obligated to apply that body of law faithfully--granting naturalization when the applicable criteria are satisfied, and denying it when they are not.  See Kungys, 485 U. S., at 774, n. 9 (opinion of Scalia, J.); id., at 787 (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment).  And to ensure right results are reached, a court can reverse such a determination, at an applicant's request, based on its "own findings of fact and conclusions of law."  8 U. S. C. §1421(c).  The entire system, in other words, is set up to provide little or no room for subjective preferences or personal whims.  Because that is so, the question of what any individual decisionmaker might have done with accurate information is beside the point: The defendant in a §1425(a) case should neither benefit nor suffer from a wayward official's deviations from legal requirements.  Accordingly, the proper causal inquiry under §1425(a) is framed in objective terms: To decide whether a defendant acquired citizenship by means of a lie, a jury must evaluate how knowledge of the real facts would have affected a reasonable government official properly applying naturalization law.
     If the facts the defendant misrepresented are themselves disqualifying, the jury can make quick work of that inquiry.  In such a case, there is an obvious causal link between the defendant's lie and her procurement of citizenship.  To take an example: An applicant for citizenship must be physically present in the United States for more than half of the five-year period preceding her application.  See 8 U. S. C. §1427(a)(1).  Suppose a defendant misrepresented her travel history to convey she had met that requirement, when in fact she had not.  The Government need only expose that lie to establish that she obtained naturalization illegally--for had she told the truth instead, the official would have promptly denied her application.  Or consider another, perhaps more common case stemming from the "good moral character" criterion.  See §1427(a)(3); supra, at 8.  That phrase is defined to exclude any person who has been convicted of an aggravated felony.  See §1101(f )(8).  If a defendant falsely denied such a conviction, she too would have gotten her citizenship by means of a lie--for otherwise the outcome would have been different.  In short, when the defendant misrepresents facts that the law deems incompatible with citizenship, her lie must have played a role in her naturalization.
     But that is not the only time a jury can find that a defendant's lie had the requisite bearing on a naturalization decision.  For even if the true facts lying behind a false statement would not "in and of themselves justify denial of citizenship," they could have "led to the discovery of other facts which would" do so.  Chaunt v. United States, 364 U. S. 350, 352-353 (1960).  We previously addressed that possibility when considering the civil statute that authorizes the Government to revoke naturalization.  See Kungys, 485 U. S., at 774-777 (opinion of Scalia, J.) (interpreting 8 U. S. C. §1451(a)).5  As we explained in that context, a person whose lies throw investigators off a trail leading to disqualifying facts gets her citizenship by means of those lies--no less than if she had denied the damning facts at the very end of the trail.  See ibid.
     When relying on such an investigation-based theory, the Government must make a two-part showing to meet its burden.  As an initial matter, the Government has to prove that the misrepresented fact was sufficiently relevant to one or another naturalization criterion that it would have prompted reasonable officials, "seeking only evidence concerning citizenship qualifications," to undertake further investigation.  Id., at 774, n. 9.  If that much is true, the inquiry turns to the prospect that such an investigation would have borne disqualifying fruit.  As to that second link in the causal chain, the Government need not show definitively that its investigation would have unearthed a disqualifying fact (though, of course, it may).  Rather, the Government need only establish that the investigation "would predictably have disclosed" some legal disqualification.  Id., at 774; see id., at 783 (Brennan, J., concurring).  If that is so, the defendant's misrepresentation contributed to the citizenship award in the way we think §1425(a) requires.
     That standard reflects two real-world attributes of cases premised on what an unhindered investigation would have found.  First is the difficulty of proving that a hypothetical inquiry would have led to some disqualifying discovery, often several years after the defendant told her lies.  As witnesses and other evidence disappear, the Government's effort to reconstruct the course of a "could have been" investigation confronts ever-mounting obstacles.  See id., at 779 (opinion of Scalia, J.).  Second, and critical to our analysis, is that the defendant--not the Government--bears the blame for that evidentiary predicament.  After all, the inquiry cannot get this far unless the defendant made an unlawful false statement and, by so doing, obstructed the normal course of an investigation.  See id., at 783 (Brennan, J., concurring) (emphasizing that "the citizen's misrepresentation [in a naturalization proceeding] necessarily frustrated the Government's investigative efforts"); see also Bigelow v. RKO Radio Pictures, Inc., 327 U. S. 251, 265 (1946) ("The most elementary conceptions of justice and public policy require that the wrongdoer shall bear the risk of the uncertainty which his own wrong has created").
     Section 1425(a) is best read to take those exigencies and equities into account, by enabling the Government (as just described) to rest on disqualifications that a thwarted investigation predictably would have uncovered.  A yet-stricter causal requirement, demanding proof positive that a disqualifying fact would have been found, sets the bar so high that "we cannot conceive that Congress intended" that result.  Kungys, 485 U. S., at 777 (opinion of Scalia, J.).  And nothing in the statutory text requires that approach.  While §1425(a) clearly imports some kind of causal or means-end relation, see supra, at 5-9, Congress left that relation's precise character unspecified.  Cf. Burrage v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 10) (noting that courts have not always construed criminal statutes to "require[ ] strict but-for causality," and have greater reason to reject such a reading when the laws do not use language like "results from" or "because of").  The open-endedness of the statutory language allows, indeed supports, our adoption of a demanding but still practicable causal standard.
     Even when the Government can make its two-part showing, however, the defendant may be able to overcome it.  Section 1425(a) is not a tool for denaturalizing people who, the available evidence indicates, were actually qualified for the citizenship they obtained.  When addressing the civil denaturalization statute, this Court insisted on a similar point: We provided the defendant with an opportunity to rebut the Government's case "by showing, through a preponderance of the evidence, that the statutory requirement as to which [a lie] had a natural tendency  to produce a favorable decision was in fact met."  Kungys, 485 U. S., at 777 (opinion of Scalia, J.) (emphasis deleted); accord, id., at 783-784 (Brennan, J., concurring).  Or said otherwise, we gave the defendant a chance to establish that she was qualified for citizenship, and held that she could not be denaturalized if she did so--even though she concealed or misrepresented facts that suggested the opposite.  And indeed, all our denaturalization decisions share this crucial feature: We have never read a statute to strip citizenship from someone who met the legal criteria for acquiring it.  See, e.g., Fedorenko v. United States, 449 U. S. 490, 505-507 (1981); Costello v. United States, 365 U. S. 265, 269-272 (1961); Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 122-123 (1943).  We will not start now.  Whatever the Government shows with respect to a thwarted investigation, qualification for citizenship is a complete defense to a prosecution brought under §1425(a).
III
     Measured against all we have said, the jury instructions in this case were in error.  As earlier noted, the District Court told the jury that it could convict based on any false statement in the naturalization process (i.e., any violation of §1015(a)), no matter how inconsequential to the ultimate decision.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a; supra, at 3.  But as we have shown, the jury needed to find more than an unlawful false statement.  Recall that Maslenjak's lie in the naturalization process concerned her prior statements to immigration officials: She swore that she had been honest when applying for admission as a refugee, but in fact she had not.  See supra, at 2-3.  The jury could have convicted if that earlier dishonesty (i.e., the thing she misrepresented when seeking citizenship) were itself a reason to deny naturalization--say, because it counted as "false testimony for the purpose of obtaining [immigration] benefits" and thus demonstrated bad moral character.  See supra, at 11-12.  Or else, the jury could have convicted if (1) knowledge of that prior dishonesty would have led a reasonable official to make some further investigation (say, into the circumstances of her admission), (2) that inquiry would predictably have yielded a legal basis for rejecting her citizenship application, and (3) Maslenjak failed to show that (notwithstanding such an objective likelihood) she was in fact qualified to become a U. S. citizen.  See supra, at 12-15.  This jury, however, was not asked to--and so did not--make any of those determinations.  Accordingly, Maslenjak was not convicted by a properly instructed jury of "procur[ing], contrary to law, [her] naturalization."
     The Government asserts that any instructional error in this case was harmless.  "Had officials known the truth," the Government asserts, "it would have affected their decision to grant [Maslenjak] citizenship."  Brief for United States 12.  Unsurprisingly, Maslenjak disagrees.  See  Tr. of Oral Arg. 6-8; Reply to Brief in Opposition 9-10.  In keeping with our usual practice, we leave that dispute for resolution on remand.  See, e.g., Skilling v. United States, 561 U. S. 358, 414 (2010).
     For the reasons stated, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Opinion of Gorsuch, J.
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 16-309
DIVNA MASLENJAK, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 22, 2017]

     Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas joins, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.
     The Court holds that the plain text and structure of the statute before us require the Government to prove causation as an element of conviction: The defendant's illegal conduct must, in some manner, cause her naturalization.  I agree with this much and concur in Part II-A of the Court's opinion to the extent it so holds.  And because the jury wasn't instructed at all about causation, I agree too that reversal is required.
     But, respectfully, there I would stop.  In an effort to "operational[ize]" the statute's causation requirement, the Court says a great deal more, offering, for example, two newly announced tests, the second with two more subparts, and a new affirmative defense--all while indicating that some of these new tests and defenses may apply only in some but not all cases.  See, e.g., ante, at 10-15.  The work here is surely thoughtful and may prove entirely sound.  But the question presented and the briefing before us focused primarily on whether the statute contains a materiality element, not on the contours of a causation requirement.  So the parties have not had the chance to join issue fully on the matters now decided.  Compare ante, at 10, n. 4, with Brief for Petitioner, pp. i, 18-38; Brief for United States, pp. i, 12-51.  And, of course, the lower courts have not had a chance to pass on any of these questions in the first instance.  Most cited by the Court have (again) focused only on the materiality (not causation) question; none has tested the elaborate operational details advanced today; and at least one has found our prior unilateral and fractured foray into a related statute in Kungys v. United States, 485 U. S. 759 (1988), "maddening[ ]."  See ante, at 10, n. 4 (collecting cases).
     Respectfully, it seems to me at least reasonably possible that the crucible of adversarial testing on which we usually depend, along with the experience of our thoughtful colleagues on the district and circuit benches, could yield insights (or reveal pitfalls) we cannot muster guided only by our own lights.  So while I agree with the Court that the parties will need guidance about the details of the statute's causation requirement, see ibid., I have no doubt that the Court of Appeals, with aid of briefing from the parties, can supply that on remand.  Other circuits may improve that guidance over time too.  And eventually we can bless the best of it.  For my part, I believe it is work enough for the day to recognize that the statute requires some proof of causation, that the jury instructions here did not, and to allow the parties and courts of appeals to take it from there as they usually do.  This Court often speaks most wisely when it speaks last.

Alito, J., concurring in judgment
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 16-309
DIVNA MASLENJAK, PETITIONER v.
UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[June 22, 2017]

     Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.
     We granted review in this case to decide whether "a naturalized American citizen can be stripped of her citizenship in a criminal proceeding based on an immaterial false statement."  Pet. for Cert. i.  The answer to that question is "no."  Although the relevant criminal statute, 18 U. S. C. §1425(a), does not expressly refer to the concept of materiality, the critical statutory language effectively requires proof of materiality in a case involving false statements.  The statute makes it a crime for a person to "procure" naturalization "contrary to law."  In false statement cases, then, the statute essentially imposes the familiar materiality requirement that applies in other contexts.  That is, a person violates the statute by procuring naturalization through an illegal false statement which has a "natural tendency to influence" the outcome--that is, the obtaining of naturalization.  Kungys v. United States, 485 U. S. 759, 772 (1988).
     Understood in this way, Section 1425(a) does not require proof that a false statement actually had some effect on the naturalization decision.  The operative statutory language--"procure" naturalization "contrary to law"--imposes no such requirement.
     Here is an example.  Eight co-workers jointly buy two season tickets to see their favorite football team play.  They all write their names on a piece of paper and place the slips in a hat to see who will get the tickets for the big game with their team's traditional rival.  One of the friends puts his name in twice, and his name is drawn.  I would say that he "procured" the tickets "contrary to" the rules of the drawing even though he might have won if he had put his name in only once.
     Here is another example.  A runner who holds the world's record in an event wants to make sure she wins the gold medal at the Olympics, so she takes a performance enhancing drug.  She wins the race but fails a drug test and is disqualified.  The second-place time is slow, and sportswriters speculate that she would have won without taking the drug.  But it would be entirely consistent with standard English usage for the race officials to say that she "procured" her first-place finish "contrary to" the governing rules.
     As these examples illustrate--and others could be added--the language of 18 U. S. C. §1425(a) does not require  that an illegal false statement have a demonstrable effect on the naturalization decision.  Instead, the statute applies when a person makes an illegal false statement to obtain naturalization, and that false statement is material to the outcome.  I see no indication that Congress meant to require more.
     One additional point is worth mentioning.  Section 1425(a) not only makes it a crime to procure naturalization contrary to law; it applies equally to any person who "attempts to procure, contrary to law . . . . naturalization."  Therefore, if a defendant knowingly performs a substantial act that he or she thinks will procure naturalization, that is sufficient for conviction.  See United States v. Resendiz-Ponce, 549 U. S. 102, 106-108 (2007).

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Compare 821 F. 3d 675, 685-686 (CA6 2016) (case below), with United States v. Munyenyezi, 781 F. 3d 532, 536 (CA1 2015) (requiring the Government to make some showing that a misrepresentation mattered to the naturalization decision); United States v. Latchin, 554 F. 3d 709, 712-715 (CA7 2009) (same); United States v. Alferahin, 433 F. 3d 1148, 1154-1156 (CA9 2006) (same); United States v. Aladekoba, 61 Fed. Appx. 27, 28 (CA4 2003) (same).
Footnote 2 To be fair, the idea of "obtaining citizenship illegally" has one other possible meaning, but no one defends it here because it does not fit with the rest of §1425.  On this alternative reading, a person would violate §1425(a) by obtaining citizenship without the requisite legal qualifications--regardless of whether she committed another illegal act in the naturalization process.  To vary our earlier example, suppose someone told you that John procured a gun illegally.  You might think that meant John got the gun through independently unlawful conduct (e.g., he held up a gun store), as in the case of the painting.  But you might instead think that John was just not legally qualified to take possession of a gun--because, for example, he once committed a felony.  That alternative interpretation is plausible with respect to goods that not everyone is eligible to obtain, like guns--or like naturalization.  And indeed, we have interpreted a civil statute closely resembling §1425(a)--which authorizes denaturalization when, inter alia, citizenship is "illegally procured," 8 U. S. C. §1451(a)--to cover that qualifications-based species of illegality.  See Fedorenko v. United States, 449  U. S. 490, 506 (1981).  But neither party urges that reading here, and for good reason.  Unlike its civil analogue, §1425(a) has a companion provision--§1425(b)--that makes it a crime to "procure or obtain naturalization" for "[one]self or another person not entitled thereto."  If obtaining citizenship without legal entitlement were enough to violate §1425(a), then that highly specific language in §1425(b) would be superfluous.  Rather than reading those words to do no work, in violation of ordinary canons of statutory construction, we understand Congress to have defined two separate crimes in §1425: Assuming the appropriate mens rea, subsection (a) covers illegal means of procurement, as described above, while subsection (b) covers simple lack of qualifications.  As we will explain, however, questions relating to citizenship qualifications play a significant role when applying §1425(a)'s causal standard in cases (like this one) predicated on false statements.  See infra, at 10-11.
Footnote 3 The list of disqualifying conduct is wide-ranging.  See, e.g., 8 U. S. C. §1101(f)(4) (illegal gambling); §1101(f)(8) (aggravated felony conviction); §1101(f)(9) (participation in genocide).
Footnote 4 Justice Gorsuch would stop before answering that question, see post, at 2 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment), but we think that such a halfway-decision would fail to fulfill our responsibility to both parties and courts.  The Government needs to know what prosecutions to bring; defendants need to know what defenses to offer; and district courts need to know how to instruct juries.  Telling them only "§1425(a) has something to do with causation" would not much help them make those decisions.  And we are well-positioned to provide further guidance.  The parties have had every opportunity to address the nature of the statute's causal standard, and both gave us considered views about how the law should work in practice.  See, e.g., Brief for Petitioner 23-24, 30; Brief for United States 17-18, 48; Tr. of Oral Arg. 14-16, 23-25, 39-46.  Moreover, many lower courts have already addressed those same issues--including one that has called this Court's failure to provide clear guidance "maddening[ ]."  Latchin, 554 F. 3d, at 713; see, e.g., id., at 713-714; Munyenyezi, 781 F. 3d, at 536-538; Alferahin, 433 F. 3d, at 1155; Aladekoba, 61 Fed. Appx., at 27-28; United States v. Acheampong, 2015 WL 926113, *2-*3 (D Kan., Mar. 3, 2015); United States v. Odeh, 2014 WL 5473042, *7-*8 (ED Mich., Oct. 27, 2014).
Footnote 5 Kungys concerned the part of that statute providing for the revocation of citizenship "procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful misrepresentation."  §1451(a).  As noted earlier, the same statute includes a prong covering citizenship that is "illegally procured."  See n. 2, supra.





United States Supreme Court
SESSIONS, ATTORNEY GENERAL v. MORALES-SANTANA, (2017)
No. 15-1191
Argued: November 9, 2016    Decided: June 12, 2017


The Immigration and Nationality Act provides the framework for acquisition of U. S. citizenship from birth by a child born abroad, when one parent is a U. S. citizen and the other a citizen of another nation.  Applicable to married couples, the main rule in effect at the time here relevant, 8 U. S. C. §1401(a)(7) (1958 ed.), required the U. S.-citizen parent to have ten years' physical presence in the United States prior to the child's birth, "at least five of which were after attaining" age 14.  The rule is made applicable to unwed U. S.-citizen fathers by §1409(a), but §1409(c) creates an exception for an unwed U. S.-citizen mother, whose citizenship can be transmitted to a child born abroad if she has lived continuously in the United States for just one year prior to the child's birth.
          Respondent Luis Ramón Morales-Santana, who has lived in the United States since he was 13, asserts U. S. citizenship at birth based on the U. S. citizenship of his biological father, José Morales.  José moved to the Dominican Republic 20 days short of his 19th birthday, therefore failing to satisfy §1401(a)(7)'s requirement of five years' physical presence after age 14.  There, he lived with the Dominican woman who gave birth to Morales-Santana.  José accepted parental responsibility and included Morales-Santana in his household; he married Morales-Santana's mother and his name was then added to hers on Morales-Santana's birth certificate.  In 2000, the Government sought to remove Morales-Santana based on several criminal convictions, ranking him as alien because, at his time of birth, his father did not satisfy the requirement of five years' physical presence after age 14.  An immigration judge rejected Morales-Santana's citizenship claim and ordered his removal.  Morales-Santana later moved to reopen the proceedings, asserting that the Government's refusal to recognize that he derived citizenship from his U. S.-citizen father violated the Constitution's equal protection guarantee.  The Board of Immigration Appeals denied the motion, but the Second Circuit reversed.  Relying on this Court's post-1970 construction of the equal protection principle as it bears on gender-based classifications, the court held unconstitutional the differential treatment of unwed mothers and fathers.  To cure this infirmity, the Court of Appeals held that Morales-Santana derived citizenship through his father, just as he would were his mother the U. S. citizen.  
Held:
     1. The gender line Congress drew is incompatible with the Fifth Amendment's requirement that the Government accord to all persons "the equal protection of the laws."  Pp. 6-23.
          (a) Morales-Santana satisfies the requirements for third-party standing in seeking to vindicate his father's right to equal protection.  José Morales' ability to pass citizenship to his son easily satisfies the requirement that the third party have a " 'close' relationship with the person who possesses the right."  Kowalski v. Tesmer, 543 U. S. 125, 130.  And José's death many years before the current controversy arose is "a 'hindrance' to [José's] ability to protect his own interests."  Ibid.  Pp. 6-7.
          (b) Sections 1401 and 1409 date from an era when the Nation's lawbooks were rife with overbroad generalizations about the way men and women are.  Today, such laws receive the heightened scrutiny that now attends "all gender-based classifications," J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T. B., 511 U. S. 127, 136, including laws granting or denying benefits "on the basis of the sex of the qualifying parent," Califano v. Westcott, 443 U. S. 76, 84.  Prescribing one rule for mothers, another for fathers, §1409 is of the same genre as the classifications declared unconstitutional in Westcott; Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71, 74, 76-77; Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677, 688-691; Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, 648-653; and Califano v. Goldfarb, 430 U. S. 199, 206-207.  A successful defense therefore requires an " 'exceedingly persuasive justification.' "  United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 531.  Pp. 7-9.
          (c) The Government must show, at least, that its gender-based " 'classification serves "important governmental objectives and that the discriminatory means employed" are "substantially related to [achieving] those objectives." ' "  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533.  The classification must serve an important governmental interest today, for "new insights and societal understandings can reveal unjustified inequality . . . that once passed unnoticed and unchallenged."  Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U. S. ___, ___.  Pp. 9-14.
               (1) At the time §1409 was enacted as part of the Nationality Act of 1940 (1940 Act), two once habitual, but now untenable, assumptions pervaded the Nation's citizenship laws and underpinned judicial and administrative rulings: In marriage, husband is dominant, wife subordinate; unwed mother is the sole guardian of a nonmarital child.  In the 1940 Act, Congress codified the mother-as-sole-guardian perception for unmarried parents.  According to the stereotype, a residency requirement was justified for unwed citizen fathers, who would care little about, and have scant contact with, their nonmarital children.  Unwed citizen mothers needed no such prophylactic, because the alien father, along with his foreign ways, was presumptively out of the picture.  Pp. 9-13.
               (2) For close to a half century, this Court has viewed with suspicion laws that rely on "overbroad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences of males and females."  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533.  No "important [governmental] interest" is served by laws grounded, as §1409(a) and (c) are, in the obsolescing view that "unwed fathers [are] invariably less qualified and entitled than mothers" to take responsibility for nonmarital children.  Caban v. Mohammed, 441 U. S. 380, 382, 394.  In light of this equal protection jurisprudence, §1409(a) and (c)'s discrete duration-of-residence requirements for mothers and fathers are anachronistic.  Pp. 13-14.
          (d) The Government points to Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787; Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420; and Nguyen v. INS, 533 U. S. 53, for support.  But Fiallo involved entry preferences for alien children; the case did not present a claim of U. S. citizenship.  And Miller and Nguyen addressed a paternal-acknowledgment requirement well met here, not the length of a parent's prebirth residency in the United States.  Pp. 14-16.
          (e) The Government's suggested rationales for §1409(a) and (c)'s gender-based differential do not survive heightened scrutiny.  Pp. 16-23.
                    (1) The Government asserts that Congress sought to ensure that a child born abroad has a strong connection to the United States.  The statute, the Government suggests, bracketed an unwed U. S.-citizen mother with a married couple in which both parents are U. S. citizens because she is the only legally recognized parent at birth; and aligned an unwed U. S.-citizen father with a married couple, one spouse a citizen, the other, an alien, because of the competing national influence of the alien mother.  This rationale conforms to the long-held view that unwed fathers care little about their children.  And the gender-based means scarcely serve the suggested congressional interest.  Citizenship may be transmitted to children who have no tie to the United States so long as their U. S.-citizen mother was continuously present in the United States for one year at any point in her life prior to the child's birth; but it may not be transmitted by a U. S.-citizen father who falls a few days short of meeting §1401(a)(7)'s longer physical-presence requirements, even if he acknowledges paternity on the day the child is born and raises the child in the United States.  Pp. 17-19.
                    (2) The Government also maintains that Congress wished to reduce the risk of statelessness for the foreign-born child of a U. S. citizen.  But congressional hearings and reports offer no support for the assertion that a statelessness concern prompted the diverse physical-presence requirements.  Nor has the Government shown that the risk of statelessness disproportionately endangered the children of unwed U. S.-citizen mothers.  Pp. 19-23.
     2. Because this Court is not equipped to convert §1409(c)'s exception for unwed U. S.-citizen mothers into the main rule displacing §§1401(a)(7) and 1409(a), it falls to Congress to select a uniform prescription that neither favors nor disadvantages any person on the basis of gender.  In the interim, §1401(a)(7)'s current requirement should apply, prospectively, to children born to unwed U. S.-citizen mothers.  The legislature's intent, as revealed by the statute at hand, governs the choice between the two remedial alternatives: extending favorable treatment to the excluded class or withdrawing favorable treatment from the favored class.  Ordinarily, the preferred rule is to extend favorable treatment.  Westcott, 443 U. S., at 89-90.  Here, however, extension to fathers of §1409(c)'s favorable treatment for mothers would displace Congress' general rule, the longer physical-presence requirements of §§1401(a)(7) and 1409 applicable to unwed U. S.-citizen fathers and U. S.-citizen parents, male as well as female, married to the child's alien parent.  Congress' " 'commitment to th[is] residual policy' " and " 'the degree of potential disruption of the statutory scheme that would occur by extension as opposed to abrogation,' " Heckler v. Mathews, 465 U. S. 728, 739, n. 5, indicate that Congress would likely have abrogated §1409(c)'s special exception, preferring to preserve "the importance of residence in this country as the talisman of dedicated attachment," Rogers v. Bellei, 401 U. S. 815, 834.  Pp. 23-28.
804 F. 3d 520, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment in part, in which Alito, J., joined.  Gorsuch, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Opinion of the Court
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 15-1191
JEFFERSON B. SESSIONS, III, ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER v. LUIS RAMON MORALES-SANTANA
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[June 12, 2017]

     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
     This case concerns a gender-based differential in the law governing acquisition of U. S. citizenship by a child born abroad, when one parent is a U. S. citizen, the other, a citizen of another nation.  The main rule appears in 8 U. S. C. §1401(a)(7) (1958 ed.), now §1401(g) (2012 ed.).  Applicable to married couples, §1401(a)(7) requires a period of physical presence in the United States for the U. S.-citizen parent.  The requirement, as initially prescribed, was ten years' physical presence prior to the child's birth, §601(g) (1940 ed.); currently, the requirement is five years prebirth, §1401(g) (2012 ed.).  That main rule is rendered applicable to unwed U. S.-citizen fathers by §1409(a).  Congress ordered an exception, however, for unwed U. S.-citizen mothers.  Contained in §1409(c), the exception allows an unwed mother to transmit her citizenship to a child born abroad if she has lived in the United States for just one year prior to the child's birth.
     The respondent in this case, Luis Ramón Morales-Santana, was born in the Dominican Republic when his father was just 20 days short of meeting §1401(a)(7)'s physical-presence requirement.  Opposing removal to the Dominican Republic, Morales-Santana asserts that the equal protection principle implicit in the Fifth Amendment1 entitles him to citizenship stature.  We hold that the gender line Congress drew is incompatible with the requirement that the Government accord to all persons "the equal protection of the laws."  Nevertheless, we cannot convert §1409(c)'s exception for unwed mothers into the main rule displacing §1401(a)(7) (covering married couples) and §1409(a) (covering unwed fathers).  We must therefore leave it to Congress to select, going forward, a physical-presence requirement (ten years, one year, or some other period) uniformly applicable to all children born abroad with one U. S.-citizen and one alien parent, wed or unwed.  In the interim, the Government must ensure that the laws in question are administered in a manner free from gender-based discrimination.
I
A
     We first describe in greater detail the regime Congress constructed.  The general rules for acquiring U. S. citizenship are found in 8 U. S. C. §1401, the first section in Chapter 1 of Title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act (1952 Act or INA), §301, 66 Stat. 235-236.  Section 1401 sets forth the INA's rules for determining who "shall be nationals and citizens of the United States at birth" by establishing a range of residency and physical-presence requirements calibrated primarily to the parents' nationality and the child's place of birth.  §1401(a) (1958 ed.); §1401 (2012 ed.).  The primacy of §1401 in the statutory scheme is evident.  Comprehensive in coverage, §1401 provides the general framework for the acquisition of citizenship at birth.  In particular, at the time relevant here,2 §1401(a)(7) provided for the U. S. citizenship of
"a person born outside the geographical limits of the United States and its outlying possessions of parents one of whom is an alien, and the other a citizen of the United States who, prior to the birth of such person, was physically present in the United States or its outlying possessions for a period or periods totaling not less than ten years, at least five of which were after attaining the age of fourteen years: Provided, That any periods of honorable service in the Armed Forces of the United States by such citizen parent may be included in computing the physical presence requirements of this paragraph."
Congress has since reduced the duration requirement to five years, two after age 14.  §1401(g) (2012 ed.).3
     Section 1409 pertains specifically to children with unmarried parents.  Its first subsection, §1409(a), incorporates by reference the physical-presence requirements of §1401, thereby allowing an acknowledged unwed citizen parent to transmit U. S. citizenship to a foreign-born child under the same terms as a married citizen parent.  Section 1409(c)--a provision applicable only to unwed U. S.-citizen mothers--states an exception to the physical-presence requirements of §§1401 and 1409(a).  Under §1409(c)'s exception, only one year of continuous physical presence is required before unwed mothers may pass citizenship to their children born abroad.
B
     Respondent Luis Ramón Morales-Santana moved to the United States at age 13, and has resided in this country most of his life.  Now facing deportation, he asserts U. S. citizenship at birth based on the citizenship of his biological father, José Morales, who accepted parental responsibility and included Morales-Santana in his household.
     José Morales was born in Guánica, Puerto Rico, on March 19, 1900.  Record 55-56.  Puerto Rico was then, as it is now, part of the United States, see Puerto Rico v. Sanchez Valle, 579 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2016) (slip op., at 2-4); 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(38) (1958 ed.) ("The term United States . . . means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the [U. S.] Virgin Islands." (internal quotation marks omitted)); §1101(a)(38) (2012 ed.) (similar), and José became a U. S. citizen under the Organic Act of Puerto Rico, ch. 145, §5, 39 Stat. 953 (a predecessor to 8 U. S. C. §1402).  After living in Puerto Rico for nearly two decades, José left his childhood home on February 27, 1919, 20 days short of his 19th birthday, therefore failing to satisfy §1401(a)(7)'s requirement of five years' physical presence after age 14.  Record 57, 66.  He did so to take up employment as a builder-mechanic for a U. S. company in the then-U. S.-occupied Dominican Republic.  Ibid.4
     By 1959, José attested in a June 21, 1971 affidavit presented to the U. S. Embassy in the Dominican Republic, he was living with Yrma Santana Montilla, a Dominican woman he would eventually marry.  Id., at 57.  In 1962, Yrma gave birth to their child, respondent Luis Morales-Santana.  Id., at 166-167.  While the record before us reveals little about Morales-Santana's childhood, the Dominican archives disclose that Yrma and José married in 1970, and that José was then added to Morales-Santana's birth certificate as his father.  Id., at 163-164, 167.  José also related in the same affidavit that he was then saving money "for the susten[ance] of [his] family" in anticipation of undergoing surgery in Puerto Rico, where members of his family still resided.  Id., at 57.  In 1975, when Morales-Santana was 13, he moved to Puerto Rico, id., at 368, and by 1976, the year his father died, he was attending public school in the Bronx, a New York City borough, id., at 140, 369.5
C
     In 2000, the Government placed Morales-Santana in removal proceedings based on several convictions for offenses under New York State Penal Law, all of them rendered on May 17, 1995.  Id., at 426.  Morales-Santana ranked as an alien despite the many years he lived in the United States, because, at the time of his birth, his father did not satisfy the requirement of five years' physical presence after age 14.  See supra, at 3-4, and n. 3.  An immigration judge rejected Morales-Santana's claim to citizenship derived from the U. S. citizenship of his father, and ordered Morales-Santana's removal to the Dominican Republic.  Record 253, 366; App. to Pet. for Cert. 45a-49a.  In 2010, Morales-Santana moved to reopen the proceedings, asserting that the Government's refusal to recognize that he derived citizenship from his U. S.-citizen father violated the Constitution's equal protection guarantee.  See Record 27, 45.  The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) denied the motion.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 8a, 42a-44a.
     The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the BIA's decision.  804 F. 3d 520, 524 (2015).  Relying on this Court's post-1970 construction of the equal protection principle as it bears on gender-based classifications, the court held unconstitutional the differential treatment of unwed mothers and fathers.  Id., at 527-535.  To cure the constitutional flaw, the court further held that Morales-Santana derived citizenship through his father, just as he would were his mother the U. S. citizen.  Id., at 535-538.  In so ruling, the Second Circuit declined to follow the conflicting decision of the Ninth Circuit in United States v. Flores-Villar, 536 F. 3d 990 (2008), see 804 F. 3d, at 530, 535, n. 17.  We granted certiorari in Flores-Villar, but ultimately affirmed by an equally divided Court.  Flores-Villar v. United States, 564 U. S. 210 (2011) ( per curiam).  Taking up Morales-Santana's request for review, 579 U. S. ___ (2016), we consider the matter anew.
II
     Because §1409 treats sons and daughters alike, Morales-Santana does not suffer discrimination on the basis of his gender.  He complains, instead, of gender-based discrimination against his father, who was unwed at the time of Morales-Santana's birth and was not accorded the right an unwed U. S.-citizen mother would have to transmit citizenship to her child.  Although the Government does not contend otherwise, we briefly explain why Morales-Santana may seek to vindicate his father's right to the equal protection of the laws.6
     Ordinarily, a party "must assert his own legal rights" and "cannot rest his claim to relief on the legal rights . . . of third parties."  Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 499 (1975).  But we recognize an exception where, as here, "the party asserting the right has a close relationship with the person who possesses the right [and] there is a hindrance to the possessor's ability to protect his own interests."  Kowalski v. Tesmer, 543 U. S. 125, 130 (2004) (quoting Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 411 (1991)).  José Morales' ability to pass citizenship to his son, respondent Morales-Santana, easily satisfies the "close relationship" requirement.  So, too, is the "hindrance" requirement well met.  José Morales' failure to assert a claim in his own right "stems from disability," not "disinterest," Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420, 450 (1998) (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment), for José died in 1976, Record 140, many years before the current controversy arose.  See Hodel v. Irving, 481 U. S. 704, 711-712, 723, n. 7 (1987) (children and their guardians may assert Fifth Amendment rights of deceased relatives).  Morales-Santana is thus the "obvious claimant," see Craig v. Boren, 429 U. S. 190, 197 (1976), the "best available proponent," Singleton v. Wulff, 428 U. S. 106, 116 (1976), of his father's right to equal protection.
III
     Sections 1401 and 1409, we note, date from an era when the lawbooks of our Nation were rife with overbroad generalizations about the way men and women are.  See, e.g., Hoyt v. Florida, 368 U. S. 57, 62 (1961) (women are the "center of home and family life," therefore they can be "relieved from the civic duty of jury service"); Goesaert v. Cleary, 335 U. S. 464, 466 (1948) (States may draw "a sharp line between the sexes").  Today, laws of this kind are subject to review under the heightened scrutiny that now attends "all gender-based classifications."  J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T. B., 511 U. S. 127, 136 (1994); see, e.g., United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 555-556 (1996) (state-maintained military academy may not deny admission to qualified women).
     Laws granting or denying benefits "on the basis of the sex of the qualifying parent," our post-1970 decisions affirm, differentiate on the basis of gender, and therefore attract heightened review under the Constitution's equal protection guarantee.  Califano v. Westcott, 443 U. S. 76, 84 (1979); see id., at 88-89 (holding unconstitutional provision of unemployed-parent benefits exclusively to fathers).  Accord Califano v. Goldfarb, 430 U. S. 199, 206-207 (1977) (plurality opinion) (holding unconstitutional a Social Security classification that denied widowers survivors' benefits available to widows); Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, 648-653 (1975) (holding unconstitutional a Social Security classification that excluded fathers from receipt of child-in-care benefits available to mothers); Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677, 688-691 (1973) (plurality opinion) (holding unconstitutional exclusion of married female officers in the military from benefits automatically accorded married male officers); cf. Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71, 74, 76-77 (1971) (holding unconstitutional a probate-code preference for a father over a mother as administrator of a deceased child's estate).7
     Prescribing one rule for mothers, another for fathers, §1409 is of the same genre as the classifications we declared unconstitutional in Reed, Frontiero, Wiesenfeld, Goldfarb, and Westcott.  As in those cases, heightened scrutiny is in order.  Successful defense of legislation that differentiates on the basis of gender, we have reiterated, requires an "exceedingly persuasive justification."  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 531 (internal quotation marks omitted); Kirchberg v. Feenstra, 450 U. S. 455, 461 (1981) (internal quotation marks omitted).
A
     The defender of legislation that differentiates on the basis of gender must show "at least that the [challenged] classification serves important governmental objectives and that the discriminatory means employed are substantially related to the achievement of those objectives."  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533 (quoting Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S. 718, 724 (1982); alteration in original); see Tuan Anh Nguyen v. INS, 533 U. S. 53, 60, 70 (2001).  Moreover, the classification must substantially serve an important governmental interest today, for "in interpreting the [e]qual [p]rotection [guarantee], [we have] recognized that new insights and societal understandings can reveal unjustified inequality . . . that once passed unnoticed and unchallenged."  Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 20).  Here, the Government has supplied no "exceedingly persuasive justification," Virginia, 518 U. S., at 531 (internal quotation marks omitted), for §1409(a) and (c)'s "gender-based" and "gender-biased" disparity, Westcott, 443 U. S., at 84 (internal quotation marks omitted).
1
     History reveals what lurks behind §1409.  Enacted in the Nationality Act of 1940 (1940 Act), see 54 Stat. 1139-1140, §1409 ended a century and a half of congressional silence on the citizenship of children born abroad to unwed parents.8  During this era, two once habitual, but now untenable, assumptions pervaded our Nation's citizenship laws and underpinned judicial and administrative rulings: In marriage, husband is dominant, wife subordinate; unwed mother is the natural and sole guardian of a nonmarital child.
     Under the once entrenched principle of male dominance in marriage, the husband controlled both wife and child.  "[D]ominance [of] the husband," this Court observed in 1915, "is an ancient principle of our jurisprudence."  Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299, 311 (1915).9  See generally Brief for Professors of History et al. as Amici Curiae 4-15.  Through the early 20th century, a male citizen automatically conferred U. S. citizenship on his alien wife.  Act of Feb. 10, 1855, ch. 71, §2, 10 Stat. 604; see Kelly v. Owen, 7 Wall. 496, 498 (1869) (the 1855 Act "confers the privileges of citizenship upon women married to citizens of the United States"); C. Bredbenner, A Nationality of Her Own: Women, Marriage, and the Law of Citizenship 15-16, 20-21 (1998).  A female citizen, however, was incapable of conferring citizenship on her husband; indeed, she was subject to expatriation if she married an alien.10  The family of a citizen or a lawfully admitted permanent resident enjoyed statutory exemptions from entry requirements, but only if the citizen or resident was male.  See, e.g., Act of Mar. 3, 1903, ch. 1012, §37, 32 Stat. 1221 (wives and children entering the country to join permanent-resident aliens and found to have contracted contagious diseases during transit shall not be deported if the diseases were easily curable or did not present a danger to others); S. Rep. No. 1515, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., 415-417 (1950) (wives exempt from literacy and quota requirements).  And from 1790 until 1934, the foreign-born child of a married couple gained U. S. citizenship only through the father.11
     For unwed parents, the father-controls tradition never held sway.  Instead, the mother was regarded as the child's natural and sole guardian.  At common law, the mother, and only the mother, was "bound to maintain [a nonmarital child] as its natural guardian."  2 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law *215-*216 (8th ed. 1854); see Nguyen, 533 U. S., at 91-92 (O'Connor, J., dissenting).  In line with that understanding, in the early 20th century, the State Department sometimes permitted unwed mothers to pass citizenship to their children, despite the absence of any statutory authority for the practice.  See Hearings on H. R. 6127 before the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 43, 431 (1940) (hereinafter 1940 Hearings); 39 Op. Atty. Gen. 397, 397-398 (1939); 39 Op. Atty. Gen. 290, 291 (1939).  See also Collins, Illegitimate Borders: Jus Sanguinis Citizenship and the Legal Construction of Family, Race, and Nation, 123 Yale L. J. 2134, 2199-2205 (2014) (hereinafter Collins).
     In the 1940 Act, Congress discarded the father-controls assumption concerning married parents, but codified the mother-as-sole-guardian perception regarding unmarried parents.  The Roosevelt administration, which proposed §1409, explained: "[T]he mother [of a nonmarital child] stands in the place of the father . . . [,] has a right to the custody and control of such a child as against the putative father, and is bound to maintain it as its natural guardian."  1940 Hearings 431 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     This unwed-mother-as-natural-guardian notion renders §1409's gender-based residency rules understandable.  Fearing that a foreign-born child could turn out "more alien than American in character," the administration believed that a citizen parent with lengthy ties to the United States would counteract the influence of the alien parent.  Id., at 426-427.  Concern about the attachment of foreign-born children to the United States explains the treatment of unwed citizen fathers, who, according to the familiar stereotype, would care little about, and have scant contact with, their nonmarital children.  For unwed citizen mothers, however, there was no need for a prolonged residency prophylactic: The alien father, who might transmit foreign ways, was presumptively out of the picture.  See id., at 431; Collins 2203 (in "nearly uniform view" of U. S. officials, "almost invariably," the mother alone "concern[ed] herself with [a nonmarital] child" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
2
     For close to a half century, as earlier observed, see supra, at 7-8, this Court has viewed with suspicion laws that rely on "overbroad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences of males and females."  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533; see Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S., at 643, 648.  In particular, we have recognized that if a "statutory objective is to exclude or 'protect' members of one gender" in reliance on "fixed notions concerning [that gender's] roles and abilities," the "objective itself is illegitimate."  Mississippi Univ. for Women, 458 U. S., at 725.
     In accord with this eventual understanding, the Court has held that no "important [governmental] interest" is served by laws grounded, as §1409(a) and (c) are, in the obsolescing view that "unwed fathers [are] invariably less qualified and entitled than mothers" to take responsibility for nonmarital children.  Caban v. Mohammed, 441 U. S. 380, 382, 394 (1979).12  Overbroad generalizations of that order, the Court has come to comprehend, have a constraining impact, descriptive though they may be of the way many people still order their lives.13  Laws according or denying benefits in reliance on "[s]tereotypes about women's domestic roles," the Court has observed, may "creat[e] a self-fulfilling cycle of discrimination that force[s] women to continue to assume the role of primary family caregiver."  Nevada Dept. of Human Resources v. Hibbs, 538 U. S. 721, 736 (2003).  Correspondingly, such laws may disserve men who exercise responsibility for raising their children.  See ibid.  In light of the equal protection jurisprudence this Court has developed since 1971, see Virginia, 518 U. S., at 531-534, §1409(a) and (c)'s discrete duration-of-residence requirements for unwed mothers and fathers who have accepted parental responsibility is stunningly anachronistic.
B
     In urging this Court nevertheless to reject Morales-Santana's equal protection plea, the Government cites three decisions of this Court: Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787 (1977); Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420; and Nguyen v. INS, 533 U. S. 53.  None controls this case.
     The 1952 Act provision at issue in Fiallo gave special immigration preferences to alien children of citizen (or lawful-permanent-resident) mothers, and to alien unwed mothers of citizen (or lawful-permanent-resident) children.  430 U. S., at 788-789, and n. 1.  Unwed fathers and their children, asserting their right to equal protection, sought the same preferences.  Id., at 791.  Applying minimal scrutiny (rational-basis review), the Court upheld the provision, relying on Congress' "exceptionally broad power" to admit or exclude aliens.  Id., at 792, 794.14  This case, however, involves no entry preference for aliens.  Morales-Santana claims he is, and since birth has been, a U. S. citizen.  Examining a claim of that order, the Court has not disclaimed, as it did in Fiallo, the application of an exacting standard of review.  See Nguyen, 533 U. S., at 60-61, 70; Miller, 523 U. S., at 434-435, n. 11 (opinion of Stevens, J.).
     The provision challenged in Miller and Nguyen as violative of equal protection requires unwed U. S.-citizen fathers, but not mothers, to formally acknowledge parenthood of their foreign-born children in order to transmit their U. S. citizenship to those children.  See §1409(a)(4) (2012 ed.).15  After Miller produced no opinion for the Court, see 523 U. S., at 423, we took up the issue anew in Nguyen.  There, the Court held that imposing a paternal-acknowledgment requirement on fathers was a justifiable, easily met means of ensuring the existence of a biological parent-child relationship, which the mother establishes by giving birth.  See 533 U. S., at 62-63.  Morales-Santana's challenge does not renew the contest over §1409's paternal-acknowledgment requirement (whether the current version or that in effect in 1970), and the Government does not dispute that Morales-Santana's father, by marrying Morales-Santana's mother, satisfied that requirement.
     Unlike the paternal-acknowledgment requirement at issue in Nguyen and Miller, the physical-presence requirements now before us relate solely to the duration of the parent's prebirth residency in the United States, not to the parent's filial tie to the child.  As the Court of Appeals observed in this case, a man needs no more time in the United States than a woman "in order to have assimilated citizenship-related values to transmit to [his] child."  804 F. 3d, at 531.  And unlike Nguyen's parental-acknowledgment requirement, §1409(a)'s age-calibrated physical-presence requirements cannot fairly be described as "minimal."  533 U. S., at 70.
C
     Notwithstanding §1409(a) and (c)'s provenance in traditional notions of the way women and men are, the Government maintains that the statute serves two important objectives: (1) ensuring a connection between the child to become a citizen and the United States and (2) preventing "statelessness," i.e., a child's possession of no citizenship at all.  Even indulging the assumption that Congress intended §1409 to serve these interests, but see supra, at 9-13, neither rationale survives heightened scrutiny.
1
     We take up first the Government's assertion that §1409(a) and (c)'s gender-based differential ensures that a child born abroad has a connection to the United States of sufficient strength to warrant conferral of citizenship at birth.  The Government does not contend, nor could it, that unmarried men take more time to absorb U. S. values than unmarried women do.  See supra, at 16.  Instead, it presents a novel argument, one it did not advance in Flores-Villar.16
     An unwed mother, the Government urges, is the child's only "legally recognized" parent at the time of childbirth.  Brief for Petitioner 9-10, 28-32.17  An unwed citizen father enters the scene later, as a second parent.  A longer physical connection to the United States is warranted for the unwed father, the Government maintains, because of the "competing national influence" of the alien mother.  Id., at 9-10.  Congress, the Government suggests, designed the statute to bracket an unwed U. S.-citizen mother with a married couple in which both parents are U. S. citizens,18 and to align an unwed U. S.-citizen father with a married couple, one spouse a citizen, the other, an alien.
     Underlying this apparent design is the assumption that the alien father of a nonmarital child born abroad to a U. S.-citizen mother will not accept parental responsibility.  For an actual affiliation between alien father and nonmarital child would create the "competing national influence" that, according to the Government, justifies imposing on unwed U. S.-citizen fathers, but not unwed U. S.-citizen mothers, lengthy physical-presence requirements.  Hardly gender neutral, see id., at 9, that assumption conforms to the long-held view that unwed fathers care little about, indeed are strangers to, their children.  See supra, at 9-13.  Lump characterization of that kind, however, no longer passes equal protection inspection.  See supra, at 13-14, and n. 13.
     Accepting, arguendo, that Congress intended the diverse physical-presence prescriptions to serve an interest in ensuring a connection between the foreign-born nonmarital child and the United States, the gender-based means scarcely serve the posited end.  The scheme permits the transmission of citizenship to children who have no tie to the United States so long as their mother was a U. S. citizen continuously present in the United States for one year at any point in her life prior to the child's birth.  The transmission holds even if the mother marries the child's alien father immediately after the child's birth and never returns with the child to the United States.  At the same time, the legislation precludes citizenship transmission by a U. S.-citizen father who falls a few days short of meeting §1401(a)(7)'s longer physical-presence requirements, even if the father acknowledges paternity on the day of the child's birth and raises the child in the United States.19  One cannot see in this driven-by-gender scheme the close means-end fit required to survive heightened scrutiny.  See, e.g., Wengler v. Druggists Mut. Ins. Co., 446 U. S. 142, 151-152 (1980) (holding unconstitutional state workers' compensation death-benefits statute presuming widows' but not widowers' dependence on their spouse's earnings); Westcott, 443 U. S., at 88-89.
2
     The Government maintains that Congress established the gender-based residency differential in §1409(a) and (c) to reduce the risk that a foreign-born child of a U. S. citizen would be born stateless.  Brief for Petitioner 33.  This risk, according to the Government, was substantially greater for the foreign-born child of an unwed U. S.-citizen mother than it was for the foreign-born child of an unwed U. S.-citizen father.  Ibid.  But there is little reason to believe that a statelessness concern prompted the diverse physical-presence requirements.  Nor has the Government shown that the risk of statelessness disproportionately endangered the children of unwed mothers.
     As the Court of Appeals pointed out, with one exception,20 nothing in the congressional hearings and reports on the 1940 and 1952 Acts "refer[s] to the problem of statelessness for children born abroad."  804 F. 3d, at 532-533.  See Collins 2205, n. 283 (author examined "many hundreds of pre-1940 administrative memos . . . defend[ing] or explain[ing] recognition of the nonmarital foreign-born children of American mothers as citizens"; of the hundreds, "exactly one memo by a U. S. official . . . mentions the risk of statelessness for the foreign-born nonmarital children of American mothers as a concern").  Reducing the incidence of statelessness was the express goal of other sections of the 1940 Act.  See 1940 Hearings 430 ("stateless[ness]" is "object" of section on foundlings).  The justification for §1409's gender-based dichotomy, however, was not the child's plight, it was the mother's role as the "natural guardian" of a nonmarital child.  See supra, at 9-13; Collins 2205 ("[T]he pronounced gender asymmetry of the Nationality Act's treatment of nonmarital foreign-born children of American mothers and fathers was shaped by contemporary maternalist norms regarding the mother's relationship with her nonmarital child--and the father's lack of such a relationship.").  It will not do to "hypothesiz[e] or inven[t]" governmental purposes for gender classifications "post hoc in response to litigation."  Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533, 535-536.
     Infecting the Government's risk-of-statelessness argument is an assumption without foundation.  "[F]oreign laws that would put the child of the U. S.-citizen mother at risk of statelessness (by not providing for the child to acquire the father's citizenship at birth)," the Government asserts, "would protect the child of the U. S.-citizen father against statelessness by providing that the child would take his mother's citizenship."  Brief for Petitioner 35.  The Government, however, neglected to expose this supposed "protection" to a reality check.  Had it done so, it would have recognized the formidable impediments placed by foreign laws on an unwed mother's transmission of citizenship to her child.  See Brief for Scholars on Statelessness as Amici Curiae 13-22, A1-A15.
     Experts who have studied the issue report that, at the time relevant here, in "at least thirty countries," citizen mothers generally could not transmit their citizenship to nonmarital children born within the mother's country.  Id., at 14; see id., at 14-17.  "[A]s many as forty-five countries," they further report, "did not permit their female citizens to assign nationality to a nonmarital child born outside the subject country with a foreign father."  Id., at 18; see id., at 18-21.  In still other countries, they also observed, there was no legislation in point, leaving the nationality of nonmarital children uncertain.  Id., at 21-22; see Sandifer, A Comparative Study of Laws Relating to Nationality at Birth and to Loss of Nationality, 29 Am. J. Int'l L. 248, 256, 258 (1935) (of 79 nations studied, about half made no specific provision for the nationality of nonmarital children).  Taking account of the foreign laws actually in force, these experts concluded, "the risk of parenting stateless children abroad was, as of [1940 and 1952], and remains today, substantial for unmarried U. S. fathers, a risk perhaps greater than that for unmarried U. S. mothers."  Brief for Scholars on Statelessness as Amici Curiae 9-10; see id., at 38-39.  One can hardly characterize as gender neutral a scheme allegedly attending to the risk of statelessness for children of unwed U. S.-citizen mothers while ignoring the same risk for children of unwed U. S.-citizen fathers.
     In 2014, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) undertook a ten-year project to eliminate statelessness by 2024.  See generally UNHCR, Ending Statelessness Within 10 Years, online at http:// www.unhcr.org/en-us/protection/statelessness/546217229/ special-report-ending-statelessness-10-years.html (all Internet materials as last visited June 9, 2017).  Cognizant that discrimination against either mothers or fathers in citizenship and nationality laws is a major cause of statelessness, the Commissioner has made a key component of its project the elimination of gender discrimination in such laws.  UNHCR, The Campaign To End Statelessness: April 2016 Update 1 (referring to speech of UNHCR "highlight[ing] the issue of gender discrimination in the nationality laws of 27 countries--a major cause of statelessness globally"), online at http://www.unhcr.org/ibelong/ wp-content / uploads / Campaign-Update-April-2016.pdf; UNHCR, Background Note on Gender Equality, Nationality Laws and Statelessness 2016, p. 1 ("Ensuring gender equality in nationality laws can mitigate the risks of statelessness."), online at http://www.refworld.org/docid/ 56de83ca4.html.  In this light, we cannot countenance risk of statelessness as a reason to uphold, rather than strike out, differential treatment of unmarried women and men with regard to transmission of citizenship to their children.
     In sum, the Government has advanced no "exceedingly persuasive" justification for §1409(a) and (c)'s gender-specific residency and age criteria.  Those disparate criteria, we hold, cannot withstand inspection under a Constitution that requires the Government to respect the equal dignity and stature of its male and female citizens.21
IV
     While the equal protection infirmity in retaining a longer physical-presence requirement for unwed fathers than for unwed mothers is clear, this Court is not equipped to grant the relief Morales-Santana seeks, i.e., extending to his father (and, derivatively, to him) the benefit of the one-year physical-presence term §1409(c) reserves for unwed mothers.
     There are "two remedial alternatives," our decisions instruct, Westcott, 443 U. S., at 89 (quoting Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S. 333, 361 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in result)), when a statute benefits one class (in this case, unwed mothers and their children), as §1409(c) does, and excludes another from the benefit (here, unwed fathers and their children).  "[A] court may either declare [the statute] a nullity and order that its benefits not extend to the class that the legislature intended to benefit, or it may extend the coverage of the statute to include those who are aggrieved by exclusion."  Westcott, 443 U. S., at 89 (quoting Welsh, 398 U. S., at 361 (opinion of Harlan, J.)).22  "[W]hen the 'right invoked is that to equal treatment,' the appropriate remedy is a mandate of equal treatment, a result that can be accomplished by withdrawal of benefits from the favored class as well as by extension of benefits to the excluded class."  Heckler v. Mathews, 465 U. S. 728, 740 (1984) (quoting Iowa-Des Moines Nat. Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 247 (1931); emphasis deleted).  "How equality is accomplished . . . is a matter on which the Constitution is silent."  Levin v. Commerce Energy, Inc., 560 U. S. 413, 426-427 (2010).23
     The choice between these outcomes is governed by the legislature's intent, as revealed by the statute at hand.  See id., at 427 ("On finding unlawful discrimination, . . . courts may attempt, within the bounds of their institutional competence, to implement what the legislature would have willed had it been apprised of the constitutional infirmity.").  See also Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of Northern New Eng., 546 U. S. 320, 330 (2006) ("the touchstone for any decision about remedy is legislative intent").24
     Ordinarily, we have reiterated, "extension, rather than nullification, is the proper course."  Westcott, 443 U. S., at 89.  Illustratively, in a series of cases involving federal financial assistance benefits, the Court struck discriminatory exceptions denying benefits to discrete groups, which meant benefits previously denied were extended.  See, e.g., Goldfarb, 430 U. S., at 202-204, 213-217 (plurality opinion) (survivors' benefits), aff'g 396 F. Supp. 308, 309 (EDNY 1975) (per curiam); Jimenez v. Weinberger, 417 U. S. 628, 630-631, and n. 2, 637-638 (1974) (disability benefits); Department of Agriculture v. Moreno, 413 U. S. 528, 529-530, 538 (1973) (food stamps); Frontiero, 411 U. S., at 678-679, and n. 2, 691, and n. 25 (plurality opinion) (military spousal benefits).  Here, however, the discriminatory exception consists of favorable treatment for a discrete group (a shorter physical-presence requirement for unwed U. S.-citizen mothers giving birth abroad).  Following the same approach as in those benefits cases--striking the discriminatory exception--leads here to extending the general rule of longer physical-presence requirements to cover the previously favored group.
     The Court has looked to Justice Harlan's concurring opinion in Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S., at 361-367, in considering whether the legislature would have struck an exception and applied the general rule equally to all, or instead, would have broadened the exception to cure the equal protection violation.  In making this assessment, a court should " 'measure the intensity of commitment to the residual policy' "--the main rule, not the exception--" 'and consider the degree of potential disruption of the statutory scheme that would occur by extension as opposed to abrogation.' "  Heckler, 465 U. S., at 739, n. 5 (quoting Welsh, 398 U. S., at 365 (opinion of Harlan, J.)).
     The residual policy here, the longer physical-presence requirement stated in §§1401(a)(7) and 1409, evidences Congress' recognition of "the importance of residence in this country as the talisman of dedicated attachment."  Rogers v. Bellei, 401 U. S. 815, 834 (1971); see Weedin v. Chin Bow, 274 U. S. 657, 665-666 (1927) (Congress "attached more importance to actual residence in the United States as indicating a basis for citizenship than it did to descent. . . . [T]he heritable blood of citizenship was thus associated unmistakeably with residence within the country which was thus recognized as essential to full citizenship." (internal quotation marks omitted)).  And the potential for "disruption of the statutory scheme" is large.  For if §1409(c)'s one-year dispensation were extended to unwed citizen fathers, would it not be irrational to retain the longer term when the U. S.-citizen parent is married?  Disadvantageous treatment of marital children in comparison to nonmarital children is scarcely a purpose one can sensibly attribute to Congress.25
     Although extension of benefits is customary in federal benefit cases, see supra, at 23-24, n. 22, 25, all indicators in this case point in the opposite direction.26  Put to the choice, Congress, we believe, would have abrogated §1409(c)'s exception, preferring preservation of the general rule.27
V
     The gender-based distinction infecting §§1401(a)(7) and 1409(a) and (c), we hold, violates the equal protection principle, as the Court of Appeals correctly ruled.  For the reasons stated, however, we must adopt the remedial course Congress likely would have chosen "had it been apprised of the constitutional infirmity."  Levin, 560 U. S., at 427.  Although the preferred rule in the typical case is to extend favorable treatment, see Westcott, 443 U. S., at 89-90, this is hardly the typical case.28  Extension here would render the special treatment Congress prescribed in §1409(c), the one-year physical-presence requirement for U. S.-citizen mothers, the general rule, no longer an exception.  Section 1401(a)(7)'s longer physical-presence requirement, applicable to a substantial majority of children born abroad to one U. S.-citizen parent and one foreign-citizen parent, therefore, must hold sway.29  Going forward, Congress may address the issue and settle on a uniform prescription that neither favors nor disadvantages any person on the basis of gender.  In the interim, as the Government suggests, §1401(a)(7)'s now-fiveyear requirement should apply, prospectively, to children born to unwed U. S.-citizen mothers.  See Brief for Petitioner 12, 51; Reply Brief 19, n. 3.
*  *  *
     The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is affirmed in part and reversed in part, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
     Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

Thomas, J., concurring in judgment
 582 U. S. ____ (2017)
No. 15-1191
JEFFERSON B. SESSIONS, III, ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER v. LUIS RAMON MORALES-SANTANA
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[June 12, 2017]

     Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins, concurring in the judgment in part.
     The Court today holds that we are "not equipped to" remedy the equal protection injury that respondent claims his father suffered under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of 1952.  Ante, at 23.  I agree with that holding.  As the majority concludes, extending 8 U. S. C. §1409(c)'s 1-year physical presence requirement to unwed citizen fathers (as respondent requests) is not, under this Court's precedent, an appropriate remedy for any equal protection violation.  See ante, at 23.  Indeed, I am skeptical that we even have the "power to provide relief of the sort requested in this suit--namely, conferral of citizenship on a basis other than that prescribed by Congress."  Tuan Anh Nguyen v. INS, 533 U. S. 53, 73 (2001) (Scalia, J., joined by Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420, 452 (1998) (Scalia, J., joined by Thomas, J., concurring in judgment)).
     The Court's remedial holding resolves this case.  Because respondent cannot obtain relief in any event, it is unnecessary for us to decide whether the 1952 version of the INA was constitutional, whether respondent has third-party standing to raise an equal protection claim on behalf of his father, or whether other immigration laws (such as the current versions of §§1401(g) and 1409) are constitutional.  I therefore concur only in the judgment reversing the Second Circuit.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 As this case involves federal, not state, legislation, the applicable equality guarantee is not the Fourteenth Amendment's explicit Equal Protection Clause, it is the guarantee implicit in the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause.  See Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, 638, n. 2 (1975) ("[W]hile the Fifth Amendment contains no equal protection clause, it does forbid discrimination that is so unjustifiable as to be violative of due process.  This Court's approach to Fifth Amendment equal protection claims has always been precisely the same as to equal protection claims under the Fourteenth Amendment." (citations and internal quotation marks omitted; alteration in original)).
Footnote 2 Unless otherwise noted, references to 8 U. S. C. §§1401 and 1409 are to the 1958 edition of the U. S. Code, the version in effect when respondent Morales-Santana was born.  Section 1409(a) and (c) have retained their numbering; §1401(a)(7) has become §1401(g).
Footnote 3 The reduction affects only children born on or after November 14, 1986.  §8(r), 102 Stat. 2619; see §§12-13, 100 Stat. 3657.  Because Morales-Santana was born in 1962, his challenge is to the ten-years, five-after-age-14 requirement applicable at the time of his birth.
Footnote 4 See generally B. Calder, The Impact of Intervention: The Dominican Republic During the U. S. Occupation of 1916-1924, pp. 17, 204-205 (1984) (describing establishment of a U. S. military government in the Dominican Republic in 1916, and plans, beginning in late 1920, for withdrawal).
Footnote 5 There is no question that Morales-Santana himself satisfied the five-year residence requirement that once conditioned a child's acquisition of citizenship under §1401(a)(7).  See §1401(b).
Footnote 6 We explain why Morales-Santana has third-party standing in view of the Government's opposition to such standing in Flores-Villar v. United States, 564 U. S. 210 (2011) (per curiam ).  See Brief for United States, O. T. 2010, No. 09-5801, pp. 10-14.
Footnote 7 See Gunther, In Search of Evolving Doctrine on a Changing Court: A Model for a Newer Equal Protection, 86 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 34 (1972) ("It is difficult to understand [Reed] without an assumption that some special sensitivity to sex as a classifying factor entered into the analysis. . . . Only by importing some special suspicion of sex-related means . . . can the [Reed] result be made entirely persuasive.").
Footnote 8 The provision was first codified in 1940 at 8 U. S. C. §605, see §205, 54 Stat. 1139-1140, and recodified in 1952 at §1409, see §309, 66 Stat. 238-239.  For simplicity, we here use the latter designation.
Footnote 9 This "ancient principle" no longer guides the Court's jurisprudence.  See Kirchberg v. Feenstra, 450 U. S. 455, 456 (1981) (invalidating, on equal protection inspection, Louisiana's former "head and master" rule).
Footnote 10 See generally C. Bredbenner, A Nationality of Her Own: Women, Marriage, and the Law of Citizenship 58-61 (1998); Sapiro, Women, Citizenship, and Nationality: Immigration and Naturalization Policies in the United States, 13 Politics & Society 1, 4-10 (1984).  In 1907, Congress codified several judicial decisions and prevailing State Department views by providing that a female U. S. citizen automatically lost her citizenship upon marriage to an alien.  Act of Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2534, §3, 34 Stat. 1228; see L. Gettys, The Law of Citizenship in the United States 119 (1934).  This Court upheld the statute.  Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S. 299, 311 (1915).
Footnote 11 Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, 1 Stat. 104; Act of Jan. 29, 1795, §3, 1 Stat. 415; Act of Apr. 14, 1802, §4, 2 Stat. 155; Act of Feb. 10, 1855, ch. 71, §2, 10 Stat. 604; see 2 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law *52-*53 (8th ed. 1854) (explaining that the 1802 Act, by adding "fathers," "seem[ed] to remove the doubt" about "whether the act intended by the words, 'children of persons,' both the father and mother, . . . or the father only"); Kerber, No Constitutional Right To Be Ladies: Women and the Obligations of Citizenship 36 (1998); Brief for Professors of History et al. as Amici Curiae 5-6.  In 1934, Congress moved in a new direction by allowing a married mother to transmit her citizenship to her child.  Act of May 24, 1934, ch. 344, §1, 48 Stat. 797.
Footnote 12 Lehr v. Robertson, 463 U. S. 248 (1983), on which the Court relied in Tuan Anh Nguyen v. INS, 533 U. S. 53, 62-64 (2001), recognized that laws treating fathers and mothers differently "may not constitutionally be applied . . . where the mother and father are in fact similarly situated with regard to their relationship with the child," Lehr, 463 U. S., at 267.  The "similarly situated" condition was not satisfied in Lehr, however, for the father in that case had "never established any custodial, personal, or financial relationship" with the child.  Ibid.
     Here, there is no dispute that José Morales formally accepted parental responsibility for his son during Morales-Santana's childhood.  See supra, at 5.  If subject to the same physical-presence requirements that applied to unwed U. S.-citizen mothers, José would have been recognized as Morales-Santana's father "as of the date of birth."  §1409(a); see §1409(c) ("at birth").
Footnote 13 Even if stereotypes frozen into legislation have "statistical  support," our decisions reject measures that classify unnecessarily and overbroadly by gender when more accurate and impartial lines can be drawn.  J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T. B., 511 U. S. 127, 139, n. 11 (1994); see, e.g., Craig v. Boren, 429 U. S. 190, 198-199 (1976);  Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, 645 (1975).  In fact, unwed fathers assume responsibility for their children in numbers already large and notably increasing.  See Brief for Population and Family Scholars as Amici Curiae 3, 5-13 (documenting that nonmarital fathers "are [often] in a parental role at the time of their child's birth," and "most . . . formally acknowledge their paternity either at the hospital or in the birthing center just after the child is born"); Brief for American Civil Liberties Union et al. as Amici Curiae 22 (observing, inter alia, that "[i]n 2015, fathers made up 16 percent of single parents with minor children in the United States").
Footnote 14 In 1986, nine years after the decision in Fiallo, Congress amended the governing law.  The definition of "child" that included offspring of natural mothers but not fathers was altered to include children born out of wedlock who established a bona fide parent-child relationship with their natural fathers.  See Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, §315(a), 100 Stat. 3439, as amended, 8 U. S. C. §1101(b)(1)(D) (1982 ed., Supp. IV); Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420, 429, n. 4 (1998) (opinion of Stevens, J.).
Footnote 15 Section 1409(a), following amendments in 1986 and 1988, see §13, 100 Stat. 3657; §8(k), 102 Stat. 2618, now states:
     "The provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (g) of section 1401 of this title, . . . shall apply as of the date of birth to a person born out of wedlock if--
     "(1) a blood relationship between the person and the father is established by clear and convincing evidence,
     "(2) the father had the nationality of the United States at the time of the person's birth,
     "(3) the father (unless deceased) has agreed in writing to provide financial support for the person until the person reaches the age of 18 years, and
     "(4) while the person is under the age of 18 years--
     "(A) the person is legitimated under the law of the person's residence or domicile,
     "(B) the father acknowledges paternity of the person in writing under oath, or
     "(C) the paternity of the person is established by adjudication of a competent court."
Footnote 16 In Flores-Villar, the Government asserted only the risk-of-statelessness rationale, which it repeats here.  See Brief for United States, O. T. 2010, No. 09-5801, at 22-39; infra, at 19-23.
Footnote 17 But see §1409(a) (unmarried U. S.-citizen father who satisfies the physical-presence requirements and, after his child is born, accepts parental responsibility transmits his citizenship to the child "as of the date of birth").
Footnote 18 When a child is born abroad to married parents, both U. S. citizens, the child ranks as a U. S. citizen at birth if either parent "has had a residence in the United States or one of its outlying possessions, prior to the birth of [the child]."  §1401(a)(3) (1958 ed.); §1401(c) (2012 ed.) (same).
Footnote 19 Brief for Respondent 26, n. 9, presents this example: "Child A is born in Germany and raised there by his U. S.-citizen mother who spent only a year of her life in the United States during infancy; Child B is born in Germany and is legitimated and raised in Germany by a U. S.-citizen father who spent his entire life in the United States before leaving for Germany one week before his nineteenth birthday.  Notwithstanding the fact that Child A's 'legal relationship' with his U. S.-citizen mother may have been established 'at the moment of birth,' and Child B's 'legal relationship' with his U. S.-citizen father may have been established a few hours later, Child B is more likely than Child A to learn English and assimilate U. S. values.  Nevertheless, under the discriminatory scheme, only Child A obtains U. S. citizenship at birth."  For another telling example, see Brief for Equality Now et al. as Amici Curiae 19-20.
Footnote 20 A Senate Report dated January 29, 1952, is the sole exception.  That Report relates that a particular problem of statelessness accounts for the 1952 Act's elimination of a 1940 Act provision the State Department had read to condition a citizen mother's ability to transmit nationality to her child on the father's failure to legitimate the child prior to the child's 18th birthday.  See 1940 Act, §205, 54 Stat. 1140 ("In the absence of . . . legitimation or adjudication [during the child's minority], . . . the child" born abroad to an unmarried citizen mother "shall be held to have acquired at birth [the mother's] nationality status." (emphasis added)).  The 1952 Act eliminated this provision, allowing the mother to transmit citizenship independent of the father's actions.  S. Rep. No. 1137, 82d Cong., 2d Sess., 39 (1952) ("This provision establish[es] the child's nationality as that of the [citizen] mother regardless of legitimation or establishment of paternity . . . ." (emphasis added)).  This sole reference to a statelessness problem does not touch or concern the different physical-presence requirements carried over from the 1940 Act into the 1952 Act.
Footnote 21 Justice Thomas, joined by Justice Alito, sees our equal protection ruling as "unnecessary," post, at 1, given our remedial holding.  But, "as we have repeatedly emphasized, discrimination itself . . . perpetuat[es] 'archaic and stereotypic notions' " incompatible with the equal treatment guaranteed by the Constitution.  Heckler v. Mathews, 465 U. S. 728, 739 (1984) (quoting Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S. 718, 725 (1982)).
Footnote 22 After silently following the path Justice Harlan charted in Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S. 333 (1970), in several cases involving gender-based discrimination, see, e.g., Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S., at 642, 653 (extending benefits); Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677, 690-691, and n. 25 (1973) ( plurality opinion) (same), the Court unanimously adopted his formulation in Califano v. Westcott, 443 U. S. 76 (1979).  See id., at 89-90 (opinion for the Court); id., at 94-95 (Powell, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  The appropriate remedy, the Westcott majority held, was extension to unemployed mothers of federal family-aid unemployment benefits provided by statute only for families of unemployed fathers.  Id., at 90-93.  In the dissent's view, nullification was the proper course.  Id., at 94-96.
Footnote 23 Because the manner in which a State eliminates discrimination "is an issue of state law," Stanton v. Stanton, 421 U. S. 7, 18 (1975), upon finding state statutes constitutionally infirm, we have generally remanded to permit state courts to choose between extension and invalidation.  See Levin v. Commerce Energy, Inc., 560 U. S. 413, 427 (2010).  In doing so, we have been explicit in leaving open on remand the option of removal of a benefit, as opposed to extension.  See, e.g., Orr v. Orr, 440 U. S. 268, 283-284 (1979) (leaving to state courts remedy for unconstitutional imposition of alimony obligations on husbands but not wives); Stanton, 421 U. S., at 17-18 (how to eliminate unconstitutional age differential, for child-support purposes, between male and female children, is "an issue of state law to be resolved by the Utah courts").
Footnote 24 We note, however, that a defendant convicted under a law classifying on an impermissible basis may assail his conviction without regard to the manner in which the legislature might subsequently cure the infirmity.  In Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104 (1972), for example, the defendant participated in a civil rights demonstration in front of a school.  Convicted of violating a local "antipicketing" ordinance that exempted "peaceful picketing of any school involved in a labor dispute," he successfully challenged his conviction on equal protection grounds.  Id., at 107 (internal quotation marks omitted).  It was irrelevant to the Court's decision whether the legislature likely would have cured the constitutional infirmity by excising the labor-dispute exemption.  In fact, the legislature had done just that subsequent to the defendant's conviction.  Ibid., and n. 2.  "Necessarily," the Court observed, "we must consider the facial constitutionality of the ordinance in effect when [the defendant] was arrested and convicted."  Id., at 107, n. 2.  See also Welsh, 398 U. S., at 361-364 (Harlan, J., concurring in result) (reversal required even if, going forward, Congress would cure the unequal treatment by extending rather than invalidating the criminal proscription).
Footnote 25 Distinctions based on parents' marital status, we have said, are subject to the same heightened scrutiny as distinctions based on gender.  Clark v. Jeter, 486 U. S. 456, 461 (1988).
Footnote 26 In crafting the INA in 1952, Congress considered, but did not adopt, an amendment that would have applied the shorter one-year continuous physical-presence requirement now contained in §1409(c) to all foreign-born children of parents with different nationalities.  See S. 2842, 82d Cong., 2d Sess., §301(a)(5) (1952).
Footnote 27 Compare with the remedial issue presented here suits under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 challenging laws prescribing terms and conditions of employment applicable to women only, e.g., minimum wage, premium pay, rest breaks, or lunch breaks.  Most courts, perhaps mindful of the mixed motives implicated in passage of such legislation (some conceiving the laws as protecting women, others, as discouraging employers from hiring women), and, taking into account the economic burdens extension would impose on employers, have invalidated the provisions.  See, e.g., Homemakers, Inc., of Los Angeles v. Division of Industrial Welfare, 509 F. 2d 20, 22-23 (CA9 1974), aff'g 356 F. Supp. 1111 (1973) (ND Cal. 1973); Burns v. Rohr Corp., 346 F. Supp. 994, 997-998 (SD Cal. 1972); RCA del Caribe, Inc. v. Silva Recio, 429 F. Supp. 651, 655-658 (PR 1976); Doctors Hospital, Inc. v. Recio, 383 F. Supp. 409, 417-418 (PR 1974); State v. Fairfield Communities Land Co., 260 Ark. 277, 279-281, 538 S. W. 2d 698, 699-700 (1976); Jones Metal Products Co. v. Walker, 29 Ohio St. 2d 173, 178-183, and n. 6, 281 N. E. 2d 1, 6-9, and n. 6 (1972); Vick v. Pioneer Oil Co., 569 S. W. 2d 631, 633-635 (Tex. Civ. App. 1978).
Footnote 28 The Court of Appeals found the remedial issue "the most vexing problem in this case."  804 F. 3d 520, 535 (2015).
Footnote 29 That Morales-Santana did not seek this outcome does not restrain the Court's judgment.  The issue turns on what the legislature would have willed.  "The relief the complaining party requests does not circumscribe this inquiry."  Levin, 560 U. S., at 427.





United States Supreme Court
ESQUIVEL-QUINTANA v. SESSIONS, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2017)
No. 16-54
Argued: February 27, 2017    Decided: May 30, 2017


Petitioner, a citizen of Mexico and lawful permanent resident of the United States, pleaded no contest in a California court to a statutory rape offense criminalizing "unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor who is more than three years younger than the perpetrator."  Cal. Penal Code Ann. §261.5(c).  For purposes of that offense, California defines "minor" as "a person under the age of 18."  §261.5(a).  Based on this conviction, the Department of Homeland Security initiated removal proceedings under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), which makes removable "[a]ny alien who is convicted of an aggravated felony," 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), including "sexual abuse of a minor," §1101(a)(43)(A).  An Immigration Judge ordered petitioner removed to Mexico.  The Board of Immigration Appeals agreed that petitioner's crime constituted sexual abuse of a minor and dismissed his appeal.  A divided Court of Appeals denied his petition for review.
Held: In the context of statutory rape offenses that criminalize sexual intercourse based solely on the ages of the participants, the generic federal definition of "sexual abuse of a minor" requires the age of the victim to be less than 16.  Pp. 2-12.
     (a) Under the categorical approach employed to determine whether an alien's conviction qualifies as an aggravated felony, the Court asks whether " 'the state statute defining the crime of conviction' categorically fits within the 'generic' federal definition of a corresponding aggravated felony."  Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. 184, 190.  Petitioner's state conviction is thus an "aggravated felony" only if the least of the acts criminalized by the state statute falls within the generic federal definition of sexual abuse of a minor.  Johnson v. United States, 559 U. S. 133, 137.  Pp. 2-3.
     (b) The least of the acts criminalized by Cal. Penal Code §261.5(c) would be consensual sexual intercourse between a victim who is almost 18 and a perpetrator who just turned 21.  Regardless of the actual facts of the case, this Court presumes that petitioner's conviction was based on those acts.  Pp. 3-4.
     (c) In the context of statutory rape offenses that criminalize sexual intercourse based solely on the ages of the participants, the generic federal definition of "sexual abuse of a minor" requires that the victim be younger than 16.  The Court begins, as always, with the text.  Pp. 4-7.  
          (1) Congress added sexual abuse of a minor to the INA in 1996.  At that time, the ordinary meaning of "sexual abuse" included "the engaging in sexual contact with a person who is below a specified age or who is incapable of giving consent because of age or mental or physical incapacity."  Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law 454.  By providing that the abuse must be "of a minor," the INA focuses on age, rather than mental or physical incapacity.  Accordingly, to qualify as sexual abuse of a minor, the statute of conviction must prohibit certain sexual acts based at least in part on the age of the victim.  Statutory rape laws, which are one example of this category of crimes, generally provide that an older person may not engage in sexual intercourse with a younger person under the "age of consent."  Reliable dictionaries indicate that the "generic" age of consent in 1996 was 16, and it remains so today.  Pp. 4-6.
          (2) The Government argues that sexual abuse of a minor includes any conduct that is illegal, involves sexual activity, and is directed at a person younger than 18.  For support, it points to the 1990 Black's Law Dictionary, which defined sexual abuse of a minor as "[i]llegal sex acts performed against a minor by a parent, guardian, relative, or acquaintance" and defined "[m]inor" as "[a]n infant or person who is under the age of legal competence," which in "most states" was "18."  But the generic federal offense does not correspond to the Government's definition, for three reasons.  First, the Government's definition is inconsistent with its own dictionary's requirement that a special relationship of trust exist between the victim and offender.  Second, in the statutory rape context, "of a minor" refers to the age of consent, not the age of legal competence.  Third, the Government's definition turns the categorical approach on its head by defining the generic federal offense as whatever is illegal under the law of the State of conviction.  Pp. 6-7.
     (d) The structure of the INA, a related federal statute, and evidence from state criminal codes confirm that, for a statutory rape offense based solely on the age of the participants to qualify as sexual abuse of a minor under the INA, the victim must be younger than 16.  The INA lists sexual abuse of a minor as an "aggravated" felony, §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), and lists it in the same subparagraph as "murder" and "rape," §1101(a)(43)(A), suggesting that it encompasses only especially egregious felonies.  A different statute, 18 U. S. C. §2243, criminalizes "[s]exual abuse of a minor or ward."  Section 2243 was amended to protect anyone under age 16 in the same omnibus law that added sexual abuse of a minor to the INA, suggesting that Congress understood that phrase to cover victims under (but not over) age 16.  Finally, a significant majority of state criminal codes set the age of consent at 16 for statutory rape offenses predicated exclusively on the age of the participants.  Pp. 7-11.
     (e) This Court does not decide whether the generic crime of sexual abuse of a minor requires a particular age differential between the victim and the perpetrator or whether it encompasses sexual intercourse involving victims over 16 that is abusive because of the nature of the relationship between the participants.  P. 11. 
     (f) Because the statute, read in context, unambiguously forecloses the Board's interpretation of sexual abuse of a minor, neither the rule of lenity nor Chevron deference applies.  Pp. 11-12.
810 F. 3d 1019, reversed.
     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Members joined, except Gorsuch, J., who took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Opinion of the Court
 581 U. S. ____ (2017)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 16-54
JUAN ESQUIVEL-QUINTANA, PETITIONER v. JEFFERSON B. SESSIONS, III, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit
[May 30, 2017]

     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.
     The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, as amended, provides that "[a]ny alien who is convicted of an aggravated felony after admission" to the United States may be removed from the country by the Attorney General.  8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  One of the many crimes that constitutes an aggravated felony under the INA is "sexual abuse of a minor."  §1101(a)(43)(A).  A conviction for sexual abuse of a minor is an aggravated felony regardless of whether it is for a "violation of Federal or State law."  §1101(a)(43).  The INA does not expressly define sexual abuse of a minor.
     We must decide whether a conviction under a state statute criminalizing consensual sexual intercourse between a 21-year-old and a 17-year-old qualifies as sexual abuse of a minor under the INA.  We hold that it does not.
I
     Petitioner Juan Esquivel-Quintana is a native and citizen of Mexico.  He was admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident in 2000.  In 2009, he pleaded no contest in the Superior Court of California to a statutory rape offense: "unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor who is more than three years younger than the perpetrator," Cal. Penal Code Ann. §261.5(c) (West 2014); see also §261.5(a) ("Unlawful sexual intercourse is an act of sexual intercourse accomplished with a person who is not the spouse of the perpetrator, if the person is a minor").  For purposes of that offense, California defines "minor" as "a person under the age of 18 years."  Ibid.
     The Department of Homeland Security initiated removal proceedings against petitioner based on that conviction.  An Immigration Judge concluded that the conviction qualified as "sexual abuse of a minor," 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(A), and ordered petitioner removed to Mexico.  The Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) dismissed his appeal.  26 I. & N. Dec. 469 (2015).  "[F]or a statutory rape offense involving a 16- or 17-year-old victim" to qualify as " 'sexual abuse of a minor,' " it reasoned, "the statute must require a meaningful age difference between the victim and the perpetrator."  Id., at 477.  In its view, the 3-year age difference required by Cal. Penal Code §261.5(c) was meaningful.  Id., at 477.  Accordingly, the Board concluded that petitioner's crime of conviction was an aggravated felony, making him removable under the INA.  Ibid.  A divided Court of Appeals denied Esquivel-Quintana's petition for review, deferring to the Board's interpretation of sexual abuse of a minor under Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984).  810 F. 3d 1019 (CA6 2016); see also id., at 1027 (Sutton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  We granted certiorari, 580 U. S. ___ (2016), and now reverse.
II
     Section 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) makes aliens removable based on the nature of their convictions, not based on their actual conduct.  See Mellouli v. Lynch, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 7).  Accordingly, to determine whether an alien's conviction qualifies as an aggravated felony under that section, we "employ a categorical approach by looking to the statute . . . of conviction, rather than to the specific facts underlying the crime."  Kawashima v. Holder, 565 U. S. 478, 483 (2012); see, e.g., Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 186 (2007) (applying the categorical approach set forth in Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575 (1990), to the INA).  Under that approach, we ask whether " 'the state statute defining the crime of conviction' categorically fits within the 'generic' federal definition of a corresponding aggravated felony."  Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. 184, 190 (2013) (quoting Duenas-Alvarez, supra, at 186).  In other words, we presume that the state conviction "rested upon . . . the least of th[e] acts" criminalized by the statute, and then we determine whether that conduct would fall within the federal definition of the crime.  Johnson v. United States, 559 U. S. 133, 137 (2010); see also Moncrieffe, supra, at 191  (focusing "on the minimum conduct criminalized by the state statute").1  Petitioner's state conviction is thus an "aggravated felony" under the INA only if the least of the acts criminalized by the state statute falls within the generic federal definition of sexual abuse of a minor.
A
     Because Cal. Penal Code §261.5(c) criminalizes "unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor who is more than three years younger than the perpetrator" and defines a minor as someone under age 18, the conduct criminalized under this provision would be, at a minimum, consensual sexual intercourse between a victim who is almost 18 and a perpetrator who just turned 21.  Regardless of the actual facts of petitioner's crime, we must presume that his conviction was based on acts that were no more criminal than that.  If those acts do not constitute sexual abuse of a minor under the INA, then petitioner was not convicted of an aggravated felony and is not, on that basis, removable.
     Petitioner concedes that sexual abuse of a minor under the INA includes some statutory rape offenses.  But he argues that a statutory rape offense based solely on the partners' ages (like the one here) is " 'abuse' " "only when the younger partner is under 16."  Reply Brief 2.  Because the California statute criminalizes sexual intercourse when the victim is up to 17 years old, petitioner contends that it does not categorically qualify as sexual abuse of a minor.
B
     We agree with petitioner that, in the context of statutory rape offenses that criminalize sexual intercourse based solely on the age of the participants, the generic federal definition of sexual abuse of a minor requires that the victim be younger than 16.  Because the California statute at issue in this case does not categorically fall within that definition, a conviction pursuant to it is not an aggravated felony under §1101(a)(43)(A).  We begin, as always, with the text.
1
     Section 1101(a)(43)(A) does not expressly define sexual abuse of a minor, so we interpret that phrase using the normal tools of statutory interpretation.  "Our analysis begins with the language of the statute."  Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 8 (2004); see also Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 53 (2006) ("The everyday understanding of" the term used in §1101 "should count for a lot here, for the statutes in play do not define the term, and so remit us to regular usage to see what Congress probably meant").
     Congress added sexual abuse of a minor to the INA in 1996, as part of a comprehensive immigration reform act.  See Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, §321(a)(i), 110 Stat. 3009-627.  At that time, the ordinary meaning of "sexual abuse" included "the engaging in sexual contact with a person who is below a specified age or who is incapable of giving consent because of age or mental or physical incapacity."  Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law 454 (1996).  By providing that the abuse must be "of a minor," the INA focuses on age, rather than mental or physical incapacity.  Accordingly, to qualify as sexual abuse of a minor, the statute of conviction must prohibit certain sexual acts based at least in part on the age of the victim.
     Statutory rape laws are one example of this category of crimes.  Those laws generally provide that an older person may not engage in sexual intercourse with a younger person under a specified age, known as the "age of consent."  See id., at 20 (defining "age of consent" as "the age at which a person is deemed competent by law to give consent esp. to sexual intercourse" and cross-referencing "statutory rape").  Many laws also require an age differential between the two partners.
     Although the age of consent for statutory rape purposes varies by jurisdiction, see infra, at 9, reliable dictionaries provide evidence that the "generic" age--in 1996 and today--is 16.  See B. Garner, A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage 38 (2d ed. 1995) ("Age of consent, usu[ally] 16, denotes the age when one is legally capable of agreeing . . . to sexual intercourse" and cross-referencing "statutory rape"); Black's Law Dictionary 73 (10th ed. 2014) (noting that the age of consent is "usu[ally] defined by statute as 16 years").
2
     Relying on a different dictionary (and "sparse" legislative history), the Government suggests an alternative " 'everyday understanding' " of "sexual abuse of a minor."  Brief for Respondent 16-17 (citing Black's Law Dictionary 1375 (6th ed. 1990)).  Around the time sexual abuse of a minor was added to the INA's list of aggravated felonies, that dictionary defined "[s]exual abuse" as "[i]llegal sex acts performed against a minor by a parent, guardian, relative, or acquaintance," and defined "[m]inor" as "[a]n infant or person who is under the age of legal competence," which in "most states" was "18."  Id., at 997, 1375.  " 'Sexual abuse of a minor,' " the Government accordingly contends, "most naturally connotes conduct that (1) is illegal, (2) involves sexual activity, and (3) is directed at a person younger than 18 years old."  Brief for Respondent 17.
     We are not persuaded that the generic federal offense corresponds to the Government's definition.  First, the Government's proposed definition is flatly inconsistent with the definition of sexual abuse contained in the very dictionary on which it relies; the Government's proposed definition does not require that the act be performed "by a parent, guardian, relative, or acquaintance."  Black's Law Dictionary 1375 (6th ed. 1990) (emphasis added).  In any event, as we explain below, offenses predicated on a special relationship of trust between the victim and offender are not at issue here and frequently have a different age requirement than the general age of consent.  Second, in the context of statutory rape, the prepositional phrase "of a minor" naturally refers not to the age of legal competence (when a person is legally capable of agreeing to a contract, for example), but to the age of consent (when a person is legally capable of agreeing to sexual intercourse).  Third, the Government's definition turns the categorical approach on its head by defining the generic federal offense of sexual abuse of a minor as whatever is illegal under the particular law of the State where the defendant was convicted.  Under the Government's preferred approach, there is no "generic" definition at all.  See Taylor, 495 U. S., at 591 (requiring "a clear indication that . . . Congress intended to abandon its general approach of using uniform categorical definitions to identify predicate offenses"); id., at 592 ("We think that 'burglary' in §924(e) must have some uniform definition independent of the labels employed by the various States' criminal codes").
C
     The structure of the INA, a related federal statute, and evidence from state criminal codes confirm that, for a statutory rape offense to qualify as sexual abuse of a minor under the INA based solely on the age of the participants, the victim must be younger than 16.
1
     Surrounding provisions of the INA guide our interpretation of sexual abuse of a minor.  See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 167 (2012).  This offense is listed in the INA as an "aggravated felony."  8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) (emphasis added).  "An 'aggravated' offense is one 'made worse or more serious by circumstances such as violence, the presence of a deadly weapon, or the intent to commit another crime.' "  Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. 563, 574 (2010) (quoting Black's Law Dictionary 75 (9th ed. 2009)).  Moreover, the INA lists sexual abuse of a minor in the same subparagraph as "murder" and "rape," §1101(a)(43)(A)--among the most heinous crimes it defines as aggravated felonies.  §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  The structure of the INA therefore suggests that sexual abuse of a minor encompasses only especially egregious felonies.
     A closely related federal statute, 18 U. S. C. §2243, provides further evidence that the generic federal definition of sexual abuse of a minor incorporates an age of consent of 16, at least in the context of statutory rape offenses predicated solely on the age of the participants.  Cf. Leocal, 543 U. S., at 12-13, n. 9 (concluding that Congress' treatment of 18 U. S. C. §16 in an Act passed "just nine months earlier" provided "stron[g] suppor[t]" for our interpretation of §16 as incorporated into the INA); Powerex Corp. v. Reliant Energy Services, Inc., 551 U. S. 224, 232 (2007).  Section 2243, which criminalizes "[s]exual abuse of a minor or ward," contains the only definition of that phrase in the United States Code.  As originally enacted in 1986, §2243 proscribed engaging in a "sexual act" with a person between the ages of 12 and 16 if the perpetrator was at least four years older than the victim.  In 1996, Congress expanded §2243 to include victims who were younger than 12, thereby protecting anyone under the age of 16.  §2243(a); see also §2241(c).  Congress did this in the same omnibus law that added sexual abuse of a minor to the INA, which suggests that Congress understood that phrase to cover victims under age 16.2  See Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, §§121(7), 321,110 Stat. 3009-31, 3009-627.
     Petitioner does not contend that the definition in §2243(a) must be imported wholesale into the INA, Brief for Petitioner 17, and we do not do so.  One reason is that the INA does not cross-reference §2243(a), whereas many other aggravated felonies in the INA are defined by cross-reference to other provisions of the United States Code, see, e.g., §1101(a)(43)(H) ("an offense described in section 875, 876, 877, or 1202 of Title 18 (relating to the demand for or receipt of ransom)").  Another is that §2243(a) requires a 4-year age difference between the perpetrator and the victim.  Combining that element with a 16-year age of consent would categorically exclude the statutory rape laws of most States.  See Brief for Respondent 34-35; cf. Taylor, 495 U. S., at 594 (declining to "constru[e] 'burglary' to mean common-law burglary," because that "would come close to nullifying that term's effect in the statute," since "few of the crimes now generally recognized as burglaries would fall within the common-law definition").  Accordingly, we rely on §2243(a) for evidence of the meaning of sexual abuse of a minor, but not as providing the complete or exclusive definition.
2
     As in other cases where we have applied the categorical approach, we look to state criminal codes for additional evidence about the generic meaning of sexual abuse of a minor.  See Taylor, 495 U. S., at 598 (interpreting " 'burglary' " under the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984 according to "the generic sense in which the term is now used in the criminal codes of most States"); Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S., at 190 (interpreting "theft" in the INA in the same manner).  When "sexual abuse of a minor" was added to the INA in 1996, thirty-one States and the District of Columbia set the age of consent at 16 for statutory rape offenses that hinged solely on the age of the participants.  As for the other States, one set the age of consent at 14; two set the age of consent at 15; six set the age of consent at 17; and the remaining ten, including California, set the age of consent at 18.  See Appendix, infra; cf. ALI, Model Penal Code §213.3(1)(a) (1980) (in the absence of a special relationship, setting the default age of consent at 16 for the crime of "[c]orruption of [m]inors").3  A significant majority of jurisdictions thus set the age of consent at 16 for statutory rape offenses predicated exclusively on the age of the participants.
     Many jurisdictions set a different age of consent for offenses that include an element apart from the age of the participants, such as offenses that focus on whether the perpetrator is in some special relationship of trust with the victim.  That was true in the two States that had offenses labeled "sexual abuse of a minor" in 1996.  See Alaska Stat. §11.41.438 (1996) (age of consent for third-degree "sexual abuse of a minor" was 16 generally but 18 where "the offender occupie[d] a position of authority in relation to the victim"); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 17-A, §254(1) (1983), as amended by 1995 Me. Laws p. 123 (age of consent for "[s]exual abuse of minors" was 16 generally but 18 where the victim was "a student" and the offender was "a teacher, employee or other official in the . . . school . . . in which the student [was] enrolled").  And that is true in four of the five jurisdictions that have offenses titled "sexual abuse of a minor" today.  Compare, e.g., D. C. Code §§22-3001 (2012), 22-3008 (2016 Cum. Supp.) (age of consent is 16 in the absence of a significant relationship) with §22-3009.01 (age of consent is 18 where the offender "is in a significant relationship" with the victim); see also Brief for Respondent 31 (listing statutes with that title).  Accordingly, the generic crime of sexual abuse of a minor may include a different age of consent where the perpetrator and victim are in a significant relationship of trust.  As relevant to this case, however, the general consensus from state criminal codes points to the same generic definition as dictionaries and federal law: Where sexual intercourse is abusive solely because of the ages of the participants, the victim must be younger than 16.
D
     The laws of many States and of the Federal Government include a minimum age differential (in addition to an age of consent) in defining statutory rape.  We need not and do not decide whether the generic crime of sexual abuse of a minor under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(A) includes an additional element of that kind.  Petitioner has "show[n] something special about California's version of the doctrine"--that the age of consent is 18, rather than 16--and needs no more to prevail.  Duenas-Alvarez, supra, at 191.  Absent some special relationship of trust, consensual sexual conduct involving a younger partner who is at least 16 years of age does not qualify as sexual abuse of a minor under the INA, regardless of the age differential between the two participants.  We leave for another day whether the generic offense requires a particular age differential between the victim and the perpetrator, and whether the generic offense encompasses sexual intercourse involving victims over the age of 16 that is abusive because of the nature of the relationship between the participants.
III
     Finally, petitioner and the Government debate whether the Board's interpretation of sexual abuse of a minor is entitled to deference under Chevron, 467 U. S. 837.  Petitioner argues that any ambiguity in the meaning of this phrase must be resolved in favor of the alien under the rule of lenity.  See Brief for Petitioner 41-45.  The Government responds that ambiguities should be resolved by deferring to the Board's interpretation.  See Brief for Respondent 45-53.  We have no need to resolve whether the rule of lenity or Chevron receives priority in this case because the statute, read in context, unambiguously forecloses the Board's interpretation.  Therefore, neither the rule of lenity nor Chevron applies.
*  *  *
     We hold that in the context of statutory rape offenses focused solely on the age of the participants, the generic federal definition of "sexual abuse of a minor" under §1101(a)(43)(A) requires the age of the victim to be less than 16.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals, accordingly, is reversed.
It is so ordered.
     Justice Gorsuch took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
APPENDIX 
These tables list offenses criminalizing sexual intercourse solely because of the age of the participants.  The tables are organized according to the statutory age of consent as of September 30, 1996--the date "sexual abuse of a minor" was added to the INA.
14 Years
15 Years
16 Years
17 Years
18 Years

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Where a state statute contains several different crimes that are described separately, we employ what is known as the "modified categorical approach."  See Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 187 (2007) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Under that approach, which is not at issue here, the court may review the charging documents, jury instructions, plea agreement, plea colloquy, and similar sources to determine the actual crime of which the alien was convicted.  See ibid.
Footnote 2 To eliminate a redundancy, Congress later amended §2243(a) to revert to the pre-1996 language.  See Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998, §301(b), 112 Stat. 2979.  That amendment does not change Congress' understanding in 1996, when it added sexual abuse of a minor to the INA.
Footnote 3 The Government notes that this sort of multijurisdictional analysis can "be useful insofar as it helps shed light on the 'common understanding and meaning' of the federal provision being interpreted," but that it is not required by the categorical approach.  Brief for Respondent 23-25 (quoting Perrin v. United States, 444 U. S. 37, 45 (1979)).  We agree.  In this case, state criminal codes aid our interpretation of "sexual abuse of a minor" by offering useful context.





United States Supreme Court
UNITED STATES, ET AL., PETITIONERS  v.  TEXAS, ET AL., (2016)
No. 15-674
Argued:     Decided: June 23, 2016



     Per Curiam.
     The judgment is affirmed by an equally divided Court.






United States Supreme Court
LUNA TORRES v. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2016)
No. 14-1096
Argued: November 3, 2015    Decided: May 19, 2016


Any alien convicted of an "aggravated felony" after entering the United States is deportable, ineligible for several forms of discretionary relief, and subject to expedited removal.  8 U. S. C. §§1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), (3).  An "aggravated felony" is defined as any of numerous offenses listed in §1101(a)(43), each of which is typically identified either as an offense "described in" a specific federal statute or by a generic label (e.g., "murder").  Section 1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence states that each enumerated crime is an aggravated felony irrespective of whether it violates federal, state, or foreign law.
          Petitioner Jorge Luna Torres (Luna), a lawful permanent resident, pleaded guilty in a New York court to attempted third-degree arson.  When immigration officials discovered his conviction, they initiated removal proceedings.  The Immigration Judge determined that  Luna's arson conviction was for an "aggravated felony" and held that Luna was therefore ineligible for discretionary relief.  The Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.  It found the federal and New York arson offenses to be identical except for the former's requirement that the crime have a connection to interstate or foreign commerce.  Because the federal statute's commerce element serves only a jurisdictional function, the Board held, New York's arson offense is "described in" the federal statute, 18 U. S. C. §844(i), for purposes of determining whether an alien has been convicted of an aggravated felony.  The Second Circuit denied review.
Held: A state offense counts as a §1101(a)(43) "aggravated felony" when it has every element of a listed federal crime except one requiring a connection to interstate or foreign commerce.
     Because Congress lacks general constitutional authority to punish crimes, most federal offenses include a jurisdictional element to tie the substantive crime to one of Congress's enumerated powers.  State legislatures are not similarly constrained, and so state crimes do not need such a jurisdictional hook.  That discrepancy creates the issue here--whether a state offense lacking a jurisdictional element but otherwise mirroring a particular federal offense can be said to be "described" by that offense.  Dictionary definitions of the word "described" do not clearly resolve this question one way or the other.  Rather, two contextual considerations decide this case: §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence and a well-established background principle that distinguishes between substantive and jurisdictional elements in criminal statutes.  Pp. 4-21.
     (a) Section §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence shows that Congress meant the term "aggravated felony" to capture serious crimes regardless of whether they are made illegal by the Federal Government, a State, or a foreign country.  But Luna's view would substantially undercut that function by excluding from the Act's coverage all state and foreign versions of any enumerated federal offense containing an interstate commerce element.  And it would do so in a particularly perverse fashion--excluding state and foreign convictions for many of §1101(a)(43)'s gravest crimes (e.g., most child pornography offenses), while reaching convictions for far less harmful offenses (e.g., operating an unlawful gambling business).  Luna theorizes that such haphazard coverage might reflect Congress's belief that crimes with an interstate connection are generally more serious than those without.  But it is implausible that Congress viewed the presence of an interstate commerce element as separating serious from non-serious conduct.  Luna's theory misconceives the function of interstate commerce elements and runs counter to the penultimate sentence's central message--that the state, federal, or foreign nature of a crime is irrelevant.  And his claim that many serious crimes excluded for want of an interstate commerce element would nonetheless count as §1101(a)(43)(F) "crime[s] of violence" provides little comfort: That alternative would not include nearly all such offenses, nor even the worst ones.  Pp. 7-14.
     (b) The settled practice of distinguishing between substantive and jurisdictional elements in federal criminal statutes also supports reading §1101(a)(43) to include state analogues that lack only an interstate commerce requirement.  Congress uses substantive and jurisdictional elements for different reasons and does not expect them to receive identical treatment.  See, e.g., United States v. Yermian, 468 U. S. 63, 68.  And that is true where, as here, the judicial task is to compare federal and state offenses.  See Lewis v. United States, 523 U. S. 155, 165.  Pp. 14-19.
764 F. 3d 152, affirmed.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Ginsburg, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas and Breyer, JJ., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 578 U. S. ____ (2016)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 14-1096
JORGE LUNA TORRES, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[May 19, 2016]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA or Act) imposes certain adverse immigration consequences on an alien convicted of an "aggravated felony."  The INA defines that term by listing various crimes, most of which are identified as offenses "described in" specified provisions of the federal criminal code.  Immediately following that list, the Act provides that the referenced offenses are aggravated felonies irrespective of whether they are "in violation of Federal[,] State[,]" or foreign law.  108 Stat. 4322, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).  In this case, we must decide if a state crime counts as an aggravated felony when it corresponds to a specified federal offense in all ways but one--namely, the state crime lacks the interstate commerce element used in the federal statute to establish legislative jurisdiction (i.e., Congress's power to enact the law).  We hold that the absence of such a jurisdictional element is immaterial: A state crime of that kind is an aggravated felony.
I
     The INA makes any alien convicted of an "aggravated felony" after entering the United States deportable.  See §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  Such an alien is also ineligible for several forms of discretionary relief, including cancellation of removal--an order allowing a deportable alien to remain in the country.  See §1229b(a)(3).  And because of his felony, the alien faces expedited removal proceedings.  See §1228(a)(3)(A).
     The Act defines the term "aggravated felony" by way of a long list of offenses, now codified at §1101(a)(43).  In all, that provision's 21 subparagraphs enumerate some 80 different crimes.  In more than half of those subparagraphs, Congress specified the crimes by citing particular federal statutes.  According to that common formulation, an offense is an aggravated felony if it is "described in," say, 18 U. S. C. §2251 (relating to child pornography), §922(g) (relating to unlawful gun possession), or, of particular relevance here, §844(i) (relating to arson and explosives).  8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(E), (I).  Most of the remaining subparagraphs refer to crimes by their generic labels, stating that an offense is an aggravated felony if, for example, it is "murder, rape, or sexual abuse of a minor."  §1101(a)(43)(A).  Following the entire list of crimes, §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence reads: "The term [aggravated felony] applies to an offense described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law and applies to such an offense in violation of the law of a foreign country for which the term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years."  So, putting aside the 15-year curlicue, the penultimate sentence provides that an offense listed in §1101(a)(43) is an aggravated felony whether in violation of federal, state, or foreign law.
     Petitioner Jorge Luna Torres, who goes by the name George Luna, immigrated to the United States as a child and has lived here ever since as a lawful permanent resident.  In 1999, he pleaded guilty to attempted arson in the third degree, in violation of New York law; he was sentenced to one day in prison and five years of probation.  Seven years later, immigration officials discovered his conviction and initiated proceedings to remove him from the country.  During those proceedings, Luna applied for cancellation of removal.  But the Immigration Judge found him ineligible for that discretionary relief because his arson conviction qualified as an aggravated felony.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 21a-22a.
     The Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) affirmed, based on a comparison of the federal and New York arson statutes.  See id., at 15a-17a.  The INA, as just noted, provides that "an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §844(i), the federal arson and explosives statute, is an aggravated felony.  Section 844(i), in turn, makes it a crime to "maliciously damage[ ] or destroy[ ], or attempt[ ] to damage or destroy, by means of fire or an explosive, any building [or] vehicle . . . used in interstate or foreign commerce or in any activity affecting interstate or foreign commerce."  For its part, the New York law that Luna was convicted under prohibits "intentionally damag[ing]," or attempting to damage, "a building or motor vehicle by starting a fire or causing an explosion."  N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §§110, 150.10 (West 2010).  The state law, the Board explained, thus matches the federal statute element-for-element with one exception: The New York law does not require a connection to interstate commerce.  According to the Board, that single difference did not matter because the federal statute's commerce element is "jurisdictional"--that is, its function is to establish Congress's power to legislate.  See App. to Pet for Cert. 16a-17a.  Given that the two laws' substantive (i.e., non-jurisdictional) elements map onto each other, the Board held, the New York arson offense is "described in" 18 U. S. C. §844(i).
     The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit denied Luna's petition for review of the Board's ruling.  See 764 F. 3d 152 (2014).  The court's decision added to a Circuit split over whether a state offense is an aggravated felony when it has all the elements of a listed federal crime except one requiring a connection to interstate commerce.1  We granted certiorari.  576 U. S. ___ (2015).
II
     The issue in this case arises because of the distinctive role interstate commerce elements play in federal criminal law.  In our federal system, "Congress cannot punish felonies generally," Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 428 (1821); it may enact only those criminal laws that are connected to one of its constitutionally enumerated powers, such as the authority to regulate interstate commerce.  As a result, most federal offenses include, in addition to substantive elements, a jurisdictional one, like the interstate commerce requirement of §844(i).  The substantive elements "primarily define[ ] the behavior that the statute calls a 'violation' of federal law," Scheidler v. National Organization for Women, Inc., 547 U. S. 9, 18 (2006)--or, as the Model Penal Code puts the point, they relate to "the harm or evil" the law seeks to prevent, §1.13(10).  The jurisdictional element, by contrast, ties the substantive offense (here, arson) to one of Congress's constitutional powers (here, its authority over interstate commerce), thus spelling out the warrant for Congress to legislate.  See id., at 17-18 (explaining that Congress intends "such statutory terms as 'affect commerce' or 'in commerce' . . . as terms of art connecting the congressional exercise of legislative authority with the constitutional provision (here, the Commerce Clause) that grants Congress that authority").
     For obvious reasons, state criminal laws do not include the jurisdictional elements common in federal statutes.2  State legislatures, exercising their plenary police powers, are not limited to Congress's enumerated powers; and so States have no reason to tie their substantive offenses to those grants of authority.  See, e.g., United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 567 (1995).  In particular, state crimes do not contain interstate commerce elements because a State does not need such a jurisdictional hook.  Accordingly, even state offenses whose substantive elements match up exactly with a federal law's will part ways with respect to interstate commerce.  That slight discrepancy creates the issue here: If a state offense lacks an interstate commerce element but otherwise mirrors one of the federal statutes listed in §1101(a)(43), does the state crime count as an aggravated felony?  Or, alternatively, does the jurisdictional difference reflected in the state and federal laws preclude that result, no matter the laws' substantive correspondence?
     Both parties begin with the statutory text most directly at issue, disputing when a state offense (here, arson) is "described in" an enumerated federal statute (here, 18 U. S. C. §844(i)).  Luna, armed principally with Black's Law Dictionary, argues that "described in" means "expressed" or "set forth" in--which, he says, requires the state offense to include each one of the federal law's elements.  Brief for Petitioner 15-16.3  The Government, brandishing dictionaries of its own, contends that the statutory phrase has a looser meaning--that "describing entails . . . not precise replication," but "convey[ance of ] an idea or impression" or of a thing's "central features."  Brief for Respondent 17.4  On that view, "described in," as opposed to the more precise "defined in" sometimes found in statutes, denotes that the state offense need only incorporate the federal law's core, substantive elements.
     But neither of those claims about the bare term "described in" can resolve this case.  Like many words, "describe" takes on different meanings in different contexts.  Consider two ways in which this Court has used the word.  In one case, "describe" conveyed exactness: A contractual provision, we wrote, "describes the subject [matter] with great particularity[,] . . . giv[ing] the precise number of pounds [of tobacco], the tax for which each pound was liable, and the aggregate of the tax."  Ryan v. United States, 19 Wall. 514, 517 (1874).  In another case, not: "The disclosure provision is meant," we stated, "to describe the law to consumers in a manner that is concise and comprehensible to the layman--which necessarily means that it will be imprecise."  CompuCredit Corp. v. Greenwood, 565 U. S. 95, 102 (2012).  So staring at, or even looking up, the words "described in" cannot answer whether a state offense must replicate every last element of a listed federal statute, including its jurisdictional one, to qualify as an aggravated felony.  In considering that issue, we must, as usual, "interpret the relevant words not in a vacuum, but with reference to the statutory context."  Abramski v. United States, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 9).5
     Here, two contextual considerations decide the matter.  The first is §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence, which shows that Congress meant the term "aggravated felony" to capture serious crimes regardless of whether they are prohibited by federal, state, or foreign law.  The second is a well-established background principle distinguishing between substantive and jurisdictional elements in federal criminal statutes.  We address each factor in turn.
A
     Section 1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence, as noted above, provides: "The term [aggravated felony] applies to an offense described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law and applies to such an offense in violation of the law of a foreign country for which the term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years."  See supra, at 2.  That sentence (except for the time limit on foreign convictions) declares the source of criminal law irrelevant: The listed offenses count as aggravated felonies regardless of whether they are made illegal by the Federal Government, a State, or a foreign country.  That is true of the crimes identified by reference to federal statutes (as here, an offense described in 18 U. S. C. §844(i)), as well as those employing generic labels (for example, murder).  As even Luna recognizes, state and foreign analogues of the enumerated federal crimes qualify as aggravated felonies.  See Brief for Petitioner 21 (contesting only what properly counts as such an analogue).  The whole point of §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence is to make clear that a listed offense should lead to swift removal, no matter whether it violates federal, state, or foreign law.
     Luna's jot-for-jot view of "described in" would substantially undercut that function by excluding from the Act's coverage all state and foreign versions of any enumerated federal offense that (like §844(i)) contains an interstate commerce element.  Such an element appears in about half of §1101(a)(43)'s listed statutes--defining, altogether, 27 serious crimes.6  Yet under Luna's reading, only those federal crimes, and not their state and foreign counterparts, would provide a basis for an alien's removal--because, as explained earlier, only Congress must ever show a link to interstate commerce.  See supra, at 4-5.  No state or foreign legislature needs to incorporate a commerce element to establish its jurisdiction, and so none ever does.  Accordingly, state and foreign crimes will never precisely replicate a federal statute containing a commerce element.  And that means, contrary to §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence, that the term "aggravated felony" would not apply to many of the Act's listed offenses irrespective of whether they are "in violation of Federal[,] State[, or foreign] law"; instead, that term would apply exclusively to the federal variants.7
     Indeed, Luna's view would limit the penultimate sentence's effect in a peculiarly perverse fashion--excluding state and foreign convictions for many of the gravest crimes listed in §1101(a)(43), while reaching those convictions for less harmful offenses.  Consider some of the state and foreign crimes that would not count as aggravated felonies on Luna's reading because the corresponding federal law has a commerce element: most child pornography offenses, including selling a child for the purpose of manufacturing such material, see §1101(a)(43)(I); demanding or receiving a ransom for kidnapping, see §1101(a)(43)(H); and possessing a firearm after a felony conviction, see §1101(a)(43)(E)(ii).  Conversely, the term "aggravated felony" in Luna's world would include state and foreign convictions for such comparatively minor offenses as operating an unlawful gambling business, see §1101(a)(43)(J), and possessing a firearm not identified by a serial number, see §1101(a)(43)(E)(iii), because Congress chose, for whatever reason, not to use a commerce element when barring that conduct.  And similarly, the term would cover any state or foreign conviction for such nonviolent activity as receiving stolen property, see §1101(a)(43)(G), or forging documents, see §1101(a)(43)(R), because the INA happens to use generic labels to describe those crimes.  This Court has previously refused to construe §1101(a)(43) so as to produce such "haphazard"--indeed, upside-down--coverage.  Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29, 40 (2009).  We see no reason to follow a different path here: Congress would not have placed an alien convicted by a State of running an illegal casino at greater risk of removal than one found guilty under the same State's law of selling a child.8
     In an attempt to make some sense of his reading, Luna posits that Congress might have believed that crimes having an interstate connection are generally more serious than those lacking one--for example, that interstate child pornography is "worse" than the intrastate variety.  Brief for Petitioner 35.  But to begin with, that theory cannot explain the set of crazy-quilt results just described: Not even Luna maintains that Congress thought local acts of selling a child, receiving explosives, or demanding a ransom are categorically less serious than, say, operating an unlawful casino or receiving stolen property (whether or not in interstate commerce).  And it is scarcely more plausible to view an interstate commerce element in any given offense as separating serious from non-serious conduct: Why, for example, would Congress see an alien who carried out a kidnapping for ransom wholly within a State as materially less dangerous than one who crossed state lines in committing that crime?  The essential harm of the crime is the same irrespective of state borders.  Luna's argument thus misconceives the function of interstate commerce elements: Rather than distinguishing greater from lesser evils, they serve (as earlier explained) to connect a given substantive offense to one of Congress's enumerated powers.  See supra, at 4-5.  And still more fundamentally, Luna's account runs counter to the penultimate sentence's central message: that the national, local, or foreign character of a crime has no bearing on whether it is grave enough to warrant an alien's automatic removal.9
     Luna (and the dissent, see post, at 6) must therefore fall back on a different defense: that his approach would exclude from the universe of aggravated felonies fewer serious state and foreign offenses than one might think.  To make that argument, Luna relies primarily on a part of the Act specifying that the term "aggravated felony" shall include "a crime of violence (as defined in [18 U. S. C. §16]) for which the term of imprisonment [is] at least one year."  §1101(a)(43)(F); see 18 U. S. C. §16 (defining "crime of violence" as involving the use of "physical force" against the person or property of another).  According to Luna, many state and foreign offenses failing to match the Act's listed federal statutes (for want of an interstate commerce element) would count as crimes of violence and, by that alternative route, trigger automatic removal.  A different statutory phrase, or so Luna says, would thus plug the holes opened by his construction of the "described in" provisions.
     Luna's argument does not reassure us.  We agree that state counterparts of some enumerated federal offenses would qualify as aggravated felonies through the "crime of violence" provision.  But not nearly all such offenses, and not even the worst ones.  Consider again some of the listed offenses described earlier.  See supra, at 10.  The "crime of violence" provision would not pick up demanding a ransom for kidnapping.  See 18 U. S. C. §875(a) (defining the crime without any reference to physical force).  It would not cover most of the listed child pornography offenses, involving the distribution, receipt, and possession of such materials.  It would not reach felon-in-possession laws and other firearms offenses.  And indeed, it would not reach arson in the many States defining that crime to include the destruction of one's own property.  See Jordison v. Gonzales, 501 F. 3d 1134, 1135 (CA9 2007) (holding that a violation of California's arson statute does not count as a crime of violence for that reason); Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29 (Solicitor General agreeing with that interpretation).10  So under Luna's reading, state and foreign counterparts to a broad swath of listed statutes would remain outside §1101(a)(43)'s coverage merely because they lack an explicit interstate commerce connection.  And for all the reasons discussed above, that result would significantly restrict the penultimate sentence's force and effect, and in an utterly random manner.11
B
     Just as important, a settled practice of distinguishing between substantive and jurisdictional elements of federal criminal laws supports reading §1101(a)(43) to include state analogues lacking an interstate commerce requirement.  As already explained, the substantive elements of a federal statute describe the evil Congress seeks to prevent; the jurisdictional element connects the law to one of Congress's enumerated powers, thus establishing legislative authority.  See supra, at 4-5; ALI, Model Penal Code §1.13(10) (1962).  Both kinds of elements must be proved to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt; and because that is so, both may play a real role in a criminal case.  But still, they are not created equal for every purpose.  To the contrary, courts have often recognized--including when comparing federal and state offenses--that Congress uses substantive and jurisdictional elements for different reasons and does not expect them to receive identical treatment.
     Consider the law respecting mens rea.  In general, courts interpret criminal statutes to require that a defendant possess a mens rea, or guilty mind, as to every element of an offense.  See Elonis v. United States, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 10).  That is so even when the "statute by its terms does not contain" any demand of that kind.  United States v. X-Citement Video, Inc., 513 U. S. 64, 70 (1994).  In such cases, courts read the statute against a "background rule" that the defendant must know each fact making his conduct illegal.  Staples v. United States, 511 U. S. 600, 619 (1994).  Or otherwise said, they infer, absent an express indication to the contrary, that Congress intended such a mental-state requirement.
     Except when it comes to jurisdictional elements.  There, this Court has stated, "the existence of the fact that confers federal jurisdiction need not be one in the mind of the actor at the time he perpetrates the act made criminal by the federal statute."  United States v. Feola, 420 U. S. 671, 677, n. 9 (1975); see United States v. Yermian, 468 U. S. 63, 68 (1984) ("Jurisdictional language need not contain the same culpability requirement as other elements of the offense"); Model Penal Code §2.02.  So when Congress has said nothing about the mental state pertaining to a jurisdictional element, the default rule flips: Courts assume that Congress wanted such an element to stand outside the otherwise applicable mens rea requirement.  In line with that practice, courts have routinely held that a criminal defendant need not know of a federal crime's interstate commerce connection to be found guilty.  See, e.g., United States v. Jinian, 725 F. 3d 954, 964-966 (CA9 2013); United States v. Lindemann, 85 F. 3d 1232, 1241 (CA7 1996); United States v. Blackmon, 839 F. 2d 900, 907 (CA2 1988).  Those courts have recognized, as we do here, that Congress viewed the commerce element as distinct from, and subject to a different rule than, the elements describing the substantive offense.
     Still more strikingly, courts have distinguished between the two kinds of elements in contexts, similar to this one, in which the judicial task is to compare federal and state offenses.  The Assimilative Crimes Act (ACA), 18 U. S. C. §13(a), subjects federal enclaves, like military bases, to state criminal laws except when they punish the same conduct as a federal statute.  The ACA thus requires courts to decide when a federal and a state law are sufficiently alike that only the federal one will apply.  And we have held that, in making that assessment, courts should ignore jurisdictional elements: When the "differences among elements" of the state and federal crimes "reflect jurisdictional, or other technical, considerations" alone, then the state law will have no effect in the area.  Lewis v. United States, 523 U. S. 155, 165 (1998); see also id., at 182 (Kennedy, J., dissenting) (agreeing that courts should "look beyond . . . jurisdictional elements," and focus only on substantive ones, in determining whether "the elements of the two crimes are the same").  In such a case, we reasoned--just as we do now--that Congress meant for the federal jurisdictional element to be set aside.
     And lower courts have uniformly adopted the same approach when comparing federal and state crimes in order to apply the federal three-strikes statute.  That law imposes mandatory life imprisonment on a person convicted on three separate occasions of a "serious violent felony."  18 U. S. C. §3559(c)(1).  Sounding very much like the INA, the three-strikes statute defines such a felony to include "a Federal or State offense, by whatever designation and wherever committed, consisting of" specified crimes (e.g., murder, manslaughter, robbery) "as described in" listed federal criminal statutes.  §3559(c)(2)(F).  In deciding whether a state crime of conviction thus corresponds to an enumerated federal statute, every court to have faced the issue has ignored the statute's jurisdictional element.  See, e.g., United States v. Rosario-Delgado, 198 F. 3d 1354, 1357 (CA11 1999) (per curiam); United States v. Wicks, 132 F. 3d 383, 386-387 (CA7 1997).  Judge Wood, writing for the Seventh Circuit, highlighted the phrase "a Federal or State offense, by whatever designation and wherever committed"--the three-strikes law's version of §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence.  "It is hard to see why Congress would have used this language," she reasoned, "if it had meant that every detail of the federal offense, including its jurisdictional element[ ], had to be replicated in the state offense."  Id., at 386-387.  Just so, too, in the INA--whose "aggravated felony" provisions operate against, and rely on, an established legal backdrop distinguishing between jurisdictional and substantive elements.12
     Luna objects to drawing that line on the ground that it is too hard to tell the difference between the two.  See Brief for Petitioner 26-28 (discussing, in particular, statutes criminalizing the destruction of federal property and sending threats via the Postal Service).  But that contention collides with the judicial experience just described.  Courts regularly separate substantive from jurisdictional elements in applying federal criminal statutes' mens rea requirements; so too in implementing other laws that require a comparison of federal and state offenses.  And from all we can see, courts perform that task with no real trouble: Luna has not pointed to any divisions between or within Circuits arising from the practice.  We do not deny that some tough questions may lurk on the margins--where an element that makes evident Congress's regulatory power also might play a role in defining the behavior Congress thought harmful.  But a standard interstate commerce element, of the kind appearing in a great many federal laws, is almost always a simple jurisdictional hook--and courts may as easily acknowledge that fact in enforcing the INA as they have done in other contexts.
C
     Luna makes a final argument opposing our reading of §1101(a)(43): If Congress had meant for "ordinary state-law" crimes like arson to count as aggravated felonies, it would have drafted the provision to make that self-evident.  Brief for Petitioner 20.  Congress, Luna submits, would have used the generic term for those crimes--e.g., "arson"--rather than demanding that the state law of conviction correspond to a listed federal statute.  See id., at 20-23.  Or else, Luna (and the dissent) suggests, see id., at 24; post, at 13, Congress would have expressly distinguished between substantive and jurisdictional elements, as it did in an unrelated law mandating the pretrial detention of any person convicted of a federal offense "described in [a certain federal statute], or of a State or local offense that would have been an offense described in [that statute] if a circumstance giving rise to Federal jurisdiction had existed," 18 U. S. C. §3142(e)(2)(A).
     But as an initial matter, Congress may have had good reason to think that a statutory reference would capture more accurately than a generic label the range of state convictions warranting automatic deportation.  The clause of §1101(a)(43) applying to Luna's case well illustrates the point.  By referring to 18 U. S. C. §844(i), that provision incorporates not only the garden-variety arson offenses that a generic "arson" label would cover, but various explosives offenses too.  See Brief for Petitioner 23, n. 7 (conceding that had Congress used the term "arson," it would have had to separately identify the explosives crimes encompassed in §844(i)).  And the elements of generic arson are themselves so uncertain as to pose problems for a court having to decide whether they are present in a given state law.  See Poulos, The Metamorphosis of the Law of Arson, 51 Mo. L. Rev. 295, 364, 387-435 (1986) (describing multiple conflicts over what conduct the term "arson" includes).  Nor is the clause at issue here unusual in those respects: Section 1101(a)(43) includes many other statutory references that do not convert easily to generic labels.  See, e.g., §1101(a)(43)(E)(ii) (listing federal statutes defining various firearms offenses).  To be sure, Congress used such labels to describe some crimes qualifying as aggravated felonies--for example, "murder, rape, or sexual abuse of a minor."  §1101(a)(43)(A).  But what is good for some crimes is not for others.  The use of a federal statutory reference shows only that Congress thought it the best way to identify certain substantive crimes--not that Congress wanted (in conflict with the penultimate sentence) to exclude state and foreign versions of those offenses for lack of a jurisdictional element.
     Still more, Congress's omission of statutory language specifically directing courts to ignore those elements cannot tip the scales in Luna's favor.  We have little doubt that "Congress could have drafted [§1101(a)(43)] with more precision than it did."  Graham County Soil & Water Conservation Dist. v. United States ex rel. Wilson, 545 U. S. 409, 422 (2005).  But the same could be said of many (even most) statutes; as to that feature, §1101(a)(43) can join a well-populated club.  And we have long been mindful of that fact when interpreting laws.  Rather than expecting (let alone demanding) perfection in drafting, we have routinely construed statutes to have a particular meaning even as we acknowledged that Congress could have expressed itself more clearly.  See, e.g., ibid.; Florida Dept. of Revenue v. Piccadilly Cafeterias, Inc., 554 U. S. 33, 41 (2008); Scarborough v. United States, 431 U. S. 563, 570-571, 575 (1977).  The question, then, is not: Could Congress have indicated (or even did Congress elsewhere indicate) in more crystalline fashion that comparisons of federal and state offenses should disregard elements that merely establish legislative jurisdiction?  The question is instead, and more simply: Is that the right and fair reading of the statute before us?  And the answer to that question, given the import of §1101(a)(43)'s penultimate sentence and the well-settled background rule distinguishing between jurisdictional and substantive elements, is yes.
III
     That reading of §1101(a)(43) resolves this case.  Luna has acknowledged that the New York arson law differs from the listed federal statute, 18 U. S. C. §844(i), in only one respect: It lacks an interstate commerce element.  See Pet. for Cert. 3.  And Luna nowhere contests that §844(i)'s commerce element--featuring the terms "in interstate or foreign commerce" and "affecting interstate or foreign commerce"--is of the standard, jurisdictional kind.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 12, 19; Scheidler, 547 U. S., at 17-18 (referring to the phrases "affect commerce" and "in commerce" as conventional "jurisdictional language").  For all the reasons we have given, such an element is properly ignored when determining if a state offense counts as an aggravated felony under §1101(a)(43).  We accordingly affirm the judgment of the Second Circuit.
It is so ordered.

Sotomayor, J., dissenting
 578 U. S. ____ (2016)
No. 14-1096
JORGE LUNA TORRES, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[May 19, 2016]

     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Breyer join, dissenting.
     The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) metes out severe immigration consequences to a noncitizen convicted of any of a number of "aggravated felon[ies]."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).  An offense "described in" 18 U. S. C. §844(i)--a federal arson statute--qualifies as such a crime.
     In this case, petitioner, who goes by George Luna, was convicted of third-degree arson under N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §150.10 (West 2010), which punishes anyone who (1) "intentionally" (2) "damages," by (3) "starting a fire or causing an explosion," (4) "a building or motor vehicle."  By contrast, the federal arson statute, 18 U. S. C. §844(i), applies when someone (1) "maliciously" (2) "damages or destroys," (3) "by means of fire or an explosive," (4) "any building, vehicle, or other real or personal property" (5) "used in interstate or foreign commerce."  There is one more element in the federal offense than in the state offense--(5), the interstate or foreign commerce element.  Luna thus was not convicted of an offense "described in" the federal statute.  Case closed.
     Not for the majority.  It dubs the fifth element "jurisdictional," then relies on contextual clues to read it out of the statute altogether.  As a result of the majority's sleuthing, Luna--a long-time legal permanent resident--is foreclosed from even appealing to the sound discretion of the Attorney General to obtain relief from removal.  Because precedent and the text and structure of the INA require the opposite result, I respectfully dissent.
I
A
     Noncitizens convicted of crimes face various consequences under the INA.  Among the harshest of those consequences fall on noncitizens convicted of 1 of the approximately 80 "aggravated felonies."  A crime that falls into one of the listed provisions can be an aggravated felony "whether in violation of Federal or State law" or "in violation of the law of a foreign country."  See 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).
     An aggravated felony conviction has two primary repercussions for noncitizens: It renders them deportable, §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), and it makes them categorically ineligible for several forms of immigration relief ordinarily left to the discretion of the Attorney General.  See, e.g., §§1229b(a)-(b) (cancellation of removal).
     The dozens of aggravated felonies in the INA are specified in two main ways.  First, some are specified by reference to a generic crime.  It is an aggravated felony, for instance, to commit "murder, rape, or sexual abuse of a minor."  §1101(a)(43)(A).  Some of those crimes use a federal definition as one of the elements.  For example: "Illicit trafficking in a controlled substance (as defined in [21 U. S. C. §802])."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B) (emphasis added).  ("Illicit trafficking" is a generic crime; the element of "controlled substance" takes the meaning in 21 U. S. C. §802, the "Definitions" provision of the Controlled Substances Act.)
     Second, it lists crimes that are wholly "described in" the federal criminal code.  See, e.g., §1101(a)(43)(H) ("an offense described in section 875, 876, 877, or 1202 of title 18 (relating to the demand for or receipt of ransom)"); §1101(a)(43)(I) ("an offense described in section 2251, 2251A, or 2252 of title 18 (relating to child pornography)").  The Government contends that Luna committed a crime in this second category: an "offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §844 (i), which criminalizes arson.  8 U. S. C. §1101 (a) (43) (E) (i).
B
     In 2006, Luna was found removable from the United States.  He attempted to apply for cancellation of removal, a form of relief available to long-time legal permanent residents at the discretion of the Attorney General.  §1229b(a).  Nothing in Luna's history would otherwise preclude cancellation.  He was the sole source of financial support for his U. S. citizen fiancée, enrolled in college and studying engineering, a homeowner, and a law-abiding legal permanent resident since he was brought to the United States as a child over 30 years ago, aside from the one third-degree arson conviction at issue in this case, for which he served a day in jail.
     But the Immigration Judge found--and the Board of Immigration Appeals and the Second Circuit confirmed--that Luna was ineligible for cancellation of removal.  Luna's New York State arson conviction, the judge held, qualified as an aggravated felony under the provision for "an offense described in" §844(i), a federal arson statute.  See §1101(a)(43)(E)(i).  Aggravated felons are ineligible for cancellation of removal.  See §1229b(a)(3).  Luna's cancellationof-removal application was thus summarily denied.
II
     But the offense of which Luna was convicted is not "described in" §844(i).  This Court's ordinary method of interpreting the aggravated felony statute, the plain text of that provision, and the structure of the INA all confirm as much.
A
     This is not the first time the Court has been tasked with determining whether a state offense constitutes an "aggravated felony" under the INA.  Until today, the Court has always required the state offense to match every element of the listed "aggravated felony."  Kawashima v. Holder, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4); see also Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 4-5); Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. 563, 580 (2010); Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29, 33 (2009); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 185 (2007); Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 52-53 (2006); Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 8 (2004).
     Our ordinary methodology thus confirms that the federal arson statute does not describe the New York arson statute under which Luna was convicted.  As I have outlined above, see supra, at 1, the federal statute is more limited: It applies only to fires that involve "interstate or foreign commerce."  The state statute contains no such limitation.  Thus, under the approach we have used in every case to date, the omission of the interstate commerce element means that Luna's state arson conviction was not an aggravated felony under the INA.
B
     The plain language of the statute supports this straightforward approach.  The word "describe" means to "express," "portray," or "represent."  See Black's Law Dictionary 445 (6th ed. 1990); Webster's Third New International Dictionary 610 (1986).  A description may be "detailed" or it may be general, setting forth only the "recognizable features, or characteristic marks," of the thing described while leaving the rest to the imagination.  4 Oxford English Dictionary 512 (2d ed. 1989).  For example, a Craigslist ad describing an apartment with "in-unit laundry, a dishwasher, rooftop access, central A/C, and a walk-in closet" may leave much to the imagination.  After all, the description does not mention the apartment's square footage, windows, or floor number.  But though the ad omits features, we would still call it a "description" because it accurately conveys the "recognizable features" of the apartment.
     However, even the most general description cannot refer to features that the thing being described does not have.  The ad is only an accurate description if the apartment "described in" it has at least the five features listed.  If the apartment only has four of the five listed features--there is no rooftop access, say, or the walk-in closet is not so much walk-in as shimmy-in--then the Craigslist ad no longer "describes" the apartment.  Rather, it misdescribes it.
     So, too, with the statutes in this case.  The federal description can be general as long as it is still accurate--that is, as long as the state law has at least all of the elements in the federal law.  But there is no meaning of "describe" that allows the Court to say §844(i) "describes" the New York offense when the New York offense only has four of the five elements listed in §844(i).  Section 844(i) misdescribes the New York offense just as surely as the too-good-to-be-true Craigslist ad misdescribes the real-life apartment.
C
     The structure of the INA confirms that conclusion and makes clear that we need not contort the ordinary, accepted meaning of the phrase "described in."  The INA has many overlapping provisions that assign carefully calibrated consequences to various types of criminal convictions.   The Court thus need not interpret any provision--and certainly none of the aggravated felony provisions, among the harshest in the INA--as broadly as possible because the INA as a whole ensures that serious criminal conduct is adequately captured.
     That overlapping structure is apparent throughout the INA.  First, the aggravated felony list itself has multiple fail-safe provisions.  Most serious offenses, for instance, will qualify as "crime[s] of violence . . . for which the term of imprisonment [is] at least one year," 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(F), even if they are not covered by a more specific provision in the aggravated felony list.  Had his crime been charged as a more serious arson and had he been punished by one year of imprisonment instead of one day, Luna might have qualified as an aggravated felon under that provision.  See Santana v. Holder, 714 F. 3d 140, 145 (CA2 2013) (second-degree arson in New York is a "crime of violence").1
     Second, other sections of the INA provide intertwining coverage for serious crimes.  Some examples of provisions that encompass many offenses include those for the commission of a "crime involving moral turpitude," a firearms offense, or a controlled substance offense, all of which will render a noncitizen removable, even if he or she has not committed an aggravated felony.  See §§1227(a)(2)(A)(i), (B)(i), (C); §§1182(a)(2)(A)(i)-(ii).  Cf. Judulang v. Holder, 565 U. S. 42, 48 (2011) (commenting on the breadth of the "crime involving moral turpitude" provision).2
     And finally, in Luna's case or anyone else's, the Attorney General can exercise her discretion to deny relief to a serious criminal whether or not that criminal has been convicted of an aggravated felony.  See Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at 581 (doubting that a narrow reading of §1101(a)(43) will have "any practical effect on policing our Nation's borders").
     To be sure, on Luna's reading, some serious conduct may not be captured by the INA.  But not nearly so much as the majority suggests.  By contrast, once the aggravated felony statute applies to a noncitizen, no provision in the INA--and virtually no act by the Attorney General--can prevent him or her from being removed.
     Looking for consistency in the aggravated felony provisions of the INA is often a fool's errand.  See Kawashima, 565 U. S., at ___, n. 2 (slip op., at 9, n. 2) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting) (noting the absurdity of making a tax misdemeanor, but not driving while drunk and causing serious bodily injury, an aggravated felony).  But the structure of the INA gives the Court no reason to read the aggravated felony provisions as broadly as possible.3  That is why this Court has repeatedly cautioned against interpreting the aggravated felony section to sweep in offenses that--like many state arson convictions--may be neither aggravated nor felonies.  See Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at 574; Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as Amici Curiae 28-29 (collecting state misdemeanor arson statutes).
III
     The majority denies Luna the opportunity to present his case to the Attorney General based on two "contextual considerations," ante, at 7, and an intuition about how the statute ought to work.  None are sufficiently persuasive to overcome the most natural reading of the aggravated felony statute.
A
     The majority first perceives a conflict between Luna's reading of the INA and what it calls the "penultimate sentence" of the aggravated felony statute.  The "penultimate sentence" provides that an offense can be an aggravated felony "whether in violation of Federal or State law" or "in violation of the law of a foreign country."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).  The majority claims that Luna's reading of the INA would vitiate the quoted proviso.  Ante, at 8-10.
     It is true that, on Luna's reading, some of the aggravated felonies listed in the INA (including "an offense described in" §844(i)) will have no state or foreign analog.  But the proviso still applies to generic offenses, which constitute nearly half of the entries in the aggravated felony list.  See, e.g., §§1101(a)(43)(A), (G), (M)(i).  And that already-large portion jumps to close to three-quarters of the offenses after counting those many listed federal statutes with no jurisdictional element.  See, e.g., §§1101(a)(43)(C), (E)(ii), (J).  In fact, it applies to the vast majority of offenses adjudicated under the INA given that most serious crimes are also "crimes of violence."  See §1101(a)(43)(F).4
     And the majority must admit that its interpretation will also leave entries in the aggravated-felony section with no state or foreign analogs.  For instance, it seems unlikely that the proviso contemplates state analogs for the aggravated felony provisions regarding treason, levying war against the United States, or disclosing national defense information.  See §§1101(a)(43)(L)(i), (P).
     In other words, under Luna's reading, the "penultimate sentence" applies to most, but not all, of the entries of the aggravated felony statute; under the majority's reading, the "penultimate sentence" also applies to most, but not all, of the entries of the aggravated felony statute.  The majority's first "contextual consideration" thus supplies no reason to prefer one reading over the other.
B
     Just as important, the majority suggests, is a "settled practice of distinguishing between substantive . . . elements"--those that define "the evil Congress seeks to prevent"--and "jurisdictional element[s]," which merely "establis[h] legislative authority."  Ante, at 15.  The majority admits that the Court does not distinguish between substantive and jurisdictional elements for many purposes, such as proof beyond a reasonable doubt and the right to a jury trial.  Ibid.; see Ring v. Arizona, 536 U. S. 584, 606 (2002).  But it nonetheless insists on a standard distinction so entrenched that Congress must have intended it to apply even absent any particular indication in the INA.
     None of the three examples that the majority proffers is evidence of such a strong norm.  First, the majority invokes our rules for interpreting criminal statutes.  Ante, at 15-16.  Whereas our general assumption is that a defendant must know each fact making his conduct illegal, courts generally hold that a criminal defendant need not know the facts that satisfy the jurisdictional element of a statute.
     But jurisdictional elements are not the only elements a defendant need not know.  Under the "default rule," ante, at 18, n. 12, for interpreting so-called "public welfare" offenses, courts have held that a defendant need not know that the substance he possesses is a narcotic, that the device he possesses is unregistered, or that he reentered the United States after previously being deported.  See Staples v. United States, 511 U. S. 600, 606-609, 611 (1994) (citing United States v. Balint, 258 U. S. 250 (1922), and United States v. Freed, 401 U. S. 601 (1971)); United States v. Burwell, 690 F. 3d 500, 508-509 (CADC 2012); United States v. Giambro, 544 F. 3d 26, 29 (CA1 2008); United States v. Martinez-Morel, 118 F. 3d 710, 715-717 (CA10 1997).  But surely the majority would not suggest that if we agree with those holdings regarding mens rea, we must then ignore the "controlled substance" element of the drug trafficking aggravated felony, the "unregistered" element of the unregistered firearms aggravated felony, or the "following deportation" element of the illegal reentry aggravated felony.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(B), (E)(iii), (M)(i), (O).  So there is likewise no reason to believe that the "default rule" for assigning mens rea to jurisdictional elements is embedded in the INA.
     The majority next points to two of the many statutes that, like the INA, require comparing the elements of federal and state offenses.  But in each case, it is the statute's language and context, not some "settled practice," ante, at 15, that command the omission of the jurisdictional element.
     The majority's first example, ante, at 16-17, is the Assimilative Crimes Act, 18 U. S. C. §13(a), a gap-filling statute that incorporates state criminal law into federal enclaves if the "act or omission" is not "made punishable by any enactment of Congress" but "would be punishable if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction of the State."  The Court held that, in identifying such a gap, courts should ignore "jurisdictional, or other technical," differences between a state and federal statute.  Lewis v. United States, 523 U. S. 155, 165 (1998).  But the way courts match the elements of a state law to a federal analog under the Assimilative Crimes Act differs fundamentally from our INA inquiry.  The basic question under the Assimilative Crimes Act is whether "federal statutes reveal an intent to occupy so much of the field as would exclude the use of the particular state statute at issue."  Id., at 164.  Under the Assimilative Crimes Act, the state statute is not compared to a single federal statute, but rather to a complex of federal statutes that roughly cover the same general conduct and "policies."  Ibid.  That statute thus has little to teach us about 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43): In interpreting the Assimilative Crimes Act, every Member of the Court rejected the simple elements-matching approach that the Court generally employs to construe the aggravated felony provisions of the INA.  See 523 U. S., at 182 (Kennedy, J., dissenting) (allowing "slight differences" in definition between federal and state statute and using "same-elements inquiry" only as a "starting point").
     The majority's analogy to the federal three strikes statute, 18 U. S. C. §3559(c)(2)(F), ante, at 17-18, is similarly unhelpful.  That provision counts as a predicate " 'serious violent felony' " any " 'Federal or State offense . . . wherever committed, consisting of' " various crimes, including several " 'as described in' " federal statutes.  Ante, at 17. (emphasis added).  Though this Court has not construed the statute, the majority notes that courts of appeals disregard the jurisdictional element of federal statutes in assessing whether a state conviction is for a "serious violent felony."  Ante, at 15-16.  But nearly all of the statutes listed in §3559(c)(2)(F) contain place-based jurisdiction elements--the crime must take place "within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States," e.g., §1111(b), or within "the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States," 49 U. S. C. §46502, and so on.  In the two cases cited by the majority, for instance, ante, at 17, Courts of Appeals concluded that a state robbery offense qualified as an offense "described in" the federal bank robbery statute even though the robbery did not take place in a bank.  See United States v. Wicks, 132 F. 3d 383, 387 (CA7 1997); United States v. Rosario-Delgado, 198 F. 3d 1354, 1357 (CA11 1999).  In that statute, it is the "wherever committed," not some loose construction of "described in," that specifically instructs the courts that the location where a crime occurs does not matter.
     Moreover, in other statutes where Congress wants to exclude jurisdictional elements when comparing state and federal offenses, it ordinarily just says so.  See, e.g., 18  U. S. C. §3142(e)(2)(A) (requiring detention of defendant pending trial if "the person has been convicted . . . of a State or local offense that would have been an offense described in subsection (f )(1) of this section if a circumstance giving rise to Federal jurisdiction had existed"); §2265A(b)(1)(B); §2426(b)(1)(B); §3142(f)(1)(D); §5032; 42 U. S. C. §§671(a)(15)(D)(ii)(I)-(II); §§5106a(b)(2)(B)(xvi)(I)-(II).  Absent comparably clear language, the Court should not presume that the INA intended deportability to depend on a not-so-"settled practice," ante, at 15, of occasionally distinguishing between substantive and jurisdictional elements.
C
     Finally, the majority suggests that it would be "peculiarly perverse," ante, at 10, to adopt Luna's plain-text reading of the statute because it would draw a distinction among crimes based on a jurisdictional element that the majority assumes is wholly divorced from "the evil Congress seeks to prevent," ante, at 15.  The jurisdictional element of a federal statute, the majority asserts, is as trivial as the perfunctory warning on a new electronic device: "[A] person would say that she had followed the instructions for setting up an iPhone that are 'described in' the user's manual, even if she in fact ignored the one" instructing that she "begin by 'read[ing] important safety information.' "  Ante, at 7, n. 5; see also ibid. (comparing jurisdictional element to a "detour" in a 3-week itinerary).
     For instance, the majority assumes that it would not be "plausible," ante, at 12, for Congress to have thought that interstate crimes are worse than wholly intrastate crimes.  Perhaps.  But when faced with an offense that, like arson, admits of a range of conduct, from the minor to the serious, Congress could plausibly have concluded that arsons prosecuted as federal crimes are more uniformly serious than arsons prosecuted as state crimes and counted only the former as aggravated felonies.  See, e.g., Klein et al., Why Federal Prosecutors Charge: A Comparison of Federal and New York State Arson and Robbery Filings, 2006-2010, 51 Houston L. Rev. 1381, 1406, 1416-1419 (2014) (finding that arsons prosecuted federally involve more property damage and more injury than arsons prosecuted under state law).
     That is because, far from being token, "conventional jurisdictional elements" serve to narrow the kinds of crimes that can be prosecuted, not just to specify the sovereign that can do the prosecuting.  Take the federal statute at issue in this case.  Section 844(i) requires that the property destroyed be "used in interstate . . . commerce."  The Court has held that "standard, jurisdictional" element, ante, at 21, demands the property's "active employment for commercial purposes, and not merely a passive, passing, or past connection to commerce."  Jones v. United States, 529 U. S. 848, 855 (2000).  As a result, the Court held that a defendant who threw a Molotov cocktail through the window of an owner-occupied residential house could not be guilty under §844(i) because the house was not "active[ly] used" in interstate commerce.  Id., at 851.  Surely, however, a New York prosecutor could have secured a conviction under N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §150.10 had the same crime been prosecuted in state, rather than federal, court.
     The difference between an offense under N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §150.10 and an offense under 18 U. S. C. §844(i) is thus more than a technical consideration about which authority chooses to prosecute.  It is a difference that goes to the magnitude and nature of the "evil," ante, at 15, itself.
*  *  *
     On the majority's reading, long-time legal permanent residents with convictions for minor state offenses are foreclosed from even appealing to the mercy of the Attorney General.  Against our standard method for comparing statutes and the text and structure of the INA, the majority stacks a supposed superfluity, a not-so-well-settled practice, and its conviction that jurisdictional elements are mere technicalities.  But an element is an element, and I would not so lightly strip a federal statute of one.  I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Compare Espinal-Andrades v. Holder, 777 F. 3d 163 (CA4 2015) (finding an aggravated felony in that circumstance); Spacek v. Holder, 688 F. 3d 536 (CA8 2012) (same); Nieto Hernandez v. Holder, 592 F. 3d 681 (CA5 2009) (same); Negrete-Rodriguez v. Mukasey, 518 F. 3d 497 (CA7 2008) (same); United States v. Castillo-Rivera, 244 F. 3d 1020 (CA9 2001) (same), with Bautista v. Attorney General, 744 F. 3d 54 (CA3 2014) (declining to find an aggravated felony).
Footnote 2 That flat statement is infinitesimally shy of being wholly true.  We have found a handful of state criminal laws with an interstate commerce element, out of the tens (or perhaps hundreds) of thousands of state crimes on the books.  Mississippi, for example, lifted essentially verbatim the text of the federal money laundering statute when drafting its own, and thus wound up with such an element.  See Miss. Code Ann. §97-23-101 (rev. 2014).  But because the incidence of such laws is so vanishingly small, and the few that exist play no role in Luna's arguments, we proceed without qualifying each statement of the kind above.
Footnote 3 Black's Law Dictionary 401 (5th ed. 1979) (defining "describe" as to "express, explain, set forth, relate, recount, narrate, depict, delineate, portray").  Luna also cites Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary 307 (1976), which defines "describe" to mean "to represent or give an account of in words."
Footnote 4 See American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 490 (5th ed. 2011) (defining "describe" as "[t]o convey an idea or impression of "); Webster's Third New International Dictionary 610 (1986) (defining "describe" as "to convey an image or notion of" or "trace or traverse the outline of ").
Footnote 5 The dissent disagrees, contending that the word "describe" decides this case in Luna's favor because a "description cannot refer to features that the thing being described does not have."  Post, at 5 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).  Says the dissent: If a Craigslist ad "describes" an apartment as having an "in-unit laundry, a dishwasher, rooftop access, central A/C, and a walk-in closet," it does not describe an apartment lacking rooftop access.  Ibid.  That is true enough, but irrelevant.  The dissent is right that when someone describes an object by a list of specific characteristics, he means that the item has each of those attributes.  But things are different when someone uses a more general descriptor--even when that descriptor (as here, a federal statute) itself has a determinate set of elements.  It would be natural, for example, to say (in the exact syntax of §1101(a)(43)) that a person followed the itinerary for a journey through Brazil that is "described in" a Lonely Planet guide if he traveled every leg of the tour other than a brief "detour north to Petrópolis."  The Lonely Planet, On the Road: Destination Brazil, http://media.lonelyplanet.com/shop/pdfs/brazil-8-getting-started.pdf (all Internet materials as last visited May 16, 2016).  And similarly, a person would say that she had followed the instructions for setting up an iPhone that are "described in" the user's manual even if she in fact ignored the one (specifically highlighted there) telling her to begin by "read[ing] important safety information" to "avoid injury."  Apple, Set Up iPhone, http://help.apple.com/iphone/9/#iph3bf43d79.
Footnote 6 See 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(D) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1956, which criminalizes laundering of monetary instruments); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1957, which criminalizes engaging in monetary transactions involving property derived from specified unlawful activities); §1101(a)(43)(E)(i) (three "offense[s] described in" 18 U. S. C. §§842(h)-(i), 844(d), which criminalize activities involving explosives); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §844(e), which criminalizes threatening to cause death, injury, or property damage using explosives); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §844(i), which criminalizes using fire or explosives to cause property damage); §1101(a)(43)(E)(ii) (six "offense[s] described in" 18 U. S. C. §§922(g)(1)-(5), ( j), which criminalize possessing a firearm in various circumstances); ibid. (two "offense[s] described in" 18 U. S. C. §§922(n), 924(b), which criminalize transporting or receiving a firearm under certain circumstances); §1101(a)(43)(E)(iii) ("an offense described in" 26 U. S. C. §5861( j), which criminalizes transporting an unregistered firearm); §1101(a)(43)(H) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §875, which criminalizes making a threat to kidnap or a ransom demand); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1202(b), which criminalizes possessing, receiving, or transmitting proceeds of a kidnapping); §1101(a)(43)(I) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §2251, which criminalizes sexually exploiting a child); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §2251A, which criminalizes selling a child for purposes of child pornography); ibid. ("an offense described in 18 U. S. C. §2252, which criminalizes various activities relating to child pornography); §1101(a)(43)(J) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1962, which criminalizes activities relating to racketeering); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1084, which criminalizes transmitting information to facilitate gambling); §1101(a)(43)(K)(ii) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §2421, which criminalizes transporting a person for purposes of prostitution); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §2422, which criminalizes coercing or enticing a person to travel for purposes of prostitution); ibid. ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §2423, which criminalizes transporting a child for purposes of prostitution); §1101(a)(43)(K)(iii) ("an offense described in" 18 U. S. C. §1591(a)(1), which criminalizes sex trafficking of children, or of adults by force, fraud, or coercion).
Footnote 7 The dissent replies: What's the big deal?  See post, at 10.  After all, it reasons, some listed federal statutes--specifically, those prohibiting treason, levying war against the United States, and disclosing national defense information--will lack state or foreign analogues even under our construction.  See ibid.  But Congress's inclusion of a few federal offenses that, by their nature, have no state or foreign analogues hardly excuses expelling from the Act's coverage the countless state and foreign versions of 27 other serious crimes.
Footnote 8 Luna's position, in addition to producing this bizarre patchwork of coverage, conflicts with our ordinary assumption that Congress, when drafting a statute, gives each provision independent meaning.  See United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 65 (1936) ("These words cannot be meaningless, else they would not have been used").  Until its most recent amendment, §1101(a)(43)(J ) provided that the term "aggravated felony" included any "offense described in [18 U. S. C. §1962] (relating to racketeer influenced corrupt organizations) for which a sentence of 5 years' imprisonment or more may be imposed."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(J ) (1994 ed., Supp. I).  (That provision now incorporates two more federal crimes, and uses one year of prison as the threshold.)  The federal racketeering statute cited has an interstate commerce element; analogous state and foreign laws (per usual) do not, and therefore would fall outside §1101(a)(43)(J ) on Luna's reading.  But if Congress had meant to so exclude those state and foreign counterparts, then §1101(a)(43)(J )'s final clause--"for which a sentence of 5 years' imprisonment may be imposed"--would have been superfluous, because federal racketeering is always punishable by more than five years' imprisonment, see 18 U. S. C. §1963(a).  That language's presence shows that Congress thought §1101(a)(43)(J ) would sweep in some state and foreign laws: The final clause served to filter out such statutes when--but only when--they applied to less serious conduct than the federal racketeering offense.
Footnote 9 The dissent attempts a variant of Luna's "not so serious" argument, but to no better effect.  Claims the dissent: Even if Congress could not have viewed "interstate crimes [as] worse than wholly intrastate crimes," it might have thought that, say, "arsons prosecuted as federal crimes are more uniformly serious than arsons prosecuted as state crimes."  Post, at 14 (emphasis added).  But we see no call to suppose that Congress regarded state prosecutions as Grapefruit League versions of the Big Show.  Cf. Mistretta v. United States, 488 U. S. 361, 427 (1989) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  In our federal system, "States possess primary authority for defining and enforcing" criminal laws, including those prohibiting the gravest crimes.  Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 635 (1993).  For that reason, even when U. S. Attorneys have jurisdiction, they are generally to defer to, rather than supplant, state prosecutions of serious offenses.  See U. S. Attorneys' Manual: Principles of Federal Prosecution §9-27.240 (1997).  And still more obviously, the dissent's theory fails with respect to foreign convictions.  That a foreign sovereign prosecutes a given crime reflects nothing about its gravity, but only about its location.
Footnote 10 In all those States, arsons of every description (whether of one's own or another's property) would fall outside the "crime of violence" provision.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 29, 46 (Solicitor General noting that the categorical approach to comparing federal and state crimes produces that effect).  And contrary to the dissent's suggestion, post, at 6, n. 2, that would be true of the most dangerous arsons, as well as of less serious ones.  The dissent similarly fails to take into account the categorical approach's rigorous requirements when discussing a couple of the non-arson offenses discussed above.  (Still others, the dissent wholly ignores.)  It speculates that if the exact right state charge is filed, some of that conduct "may" qualify, through the crime-of-violence provision or some other route, as an aggravated felony.  Ibid.  "May" is very much the operative word there, because--depending on the elements of the state offense chosen--that conduct also "may not."  And the dissent never explains why Congress would have left the deportation of dangerous felons to such prosecutorial happenstance.
Footnote 11 The dissent well-nigh embraces those consequences, arguing that a narrow reading of "aggravated felony" would make more convicted criminals removable under other statutory provisions, all of which allow for relief at the Attorney General's discretion.  See post, at 8, 15 (lamenting that aliens convicted of aggravated felonies may not "even appeal[ ] to the mercy of the Attorney General").  But Congress made a judgment that aliens convicted of certain serious offenses (irrespective of whether those convictions were based on federal, state, or foreign law) should be not only removable but also ineligible for discretionary relief.  It is not our place to second-guess that decision.
Footnote 12 The dissent declares our discussion of the three-strikes law, the Assimilative Crime Act (ACA), and mens rea "unhelpful" on the ground that all three contexts are somehow "differ[ent]."  Post, at 10-13.  But what makes them relevantly so the dissent fails to explain.  First, the dissent errs in suggesting that the uniform judicial interpretation of the three-strikes law ignores only "place-based jurisdiction elements" (because, so says the dissent, of the phrase "wherever committed").  Post, at 13.  As Judge Wood's analysis indicates, that is a theory of the dissent's own creation; the actual appellate decisions apply to all jurisdictional elements, not just territorial ones.  Next, the dissent goes wrong in claiming that the ACA is not pertinent because this Court adopted a different method for matching substantive elements under that law than under the INA.  See post, at 12.  For even as the Court made that choice, it unanimously agreed that, however substantive elements should be compared, jurisdictional elements should be disregarded.  See Lewis v. United States, 523 U. S. 155, 165 (1998); id., at 182 (Kennedy, J., dissenting).  And finally, the dissent does nothing to undermine our point on mens rea by noting that Congress very occasionally dispenses with that requirement for substantive elements.  See post, at 11.  As just shown, the default rule respecting mental states flips as between jurisdictional and substantive elements, see supra, at 15-16--reflecting the view (also at play in the three-strikes and ACA contexts) that Congress generally means to treat the two differently.  That leaves the dissent with nothing except its observation that when applying the beyond-a-reasonable-doubt and jury-trial requirements, the Court does not distinguish between jurisdictional and substantive elements.  See post, at 10.  But the dissent forgets that those commands are constitutional in nature; a principle of statutory interpretation distinguishing between the two kinds of elements, as best reflecting Congress's intent, could not bear on those mandates.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Many of the majority's own examples of "the gravest" state offenses supposedly excluded from the aggravated felony list by Luna's reading actually fall within these fail-safe provisions.  Ante, at 10.  Many state arsons will qualify as "crime[s] of violence" under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(F), see, e.g., Mbea v. Gonzales, 482 F. 3d 276, 279 (CA4 2007); an even greater fraction of the most serious arsons will fall under that heading because States like New York have enacted gradated statutes under which more severe degrees of arson are crimes of violence, see Santana, 714 F. 3d, at 145.  To take another of the majority's examples, while a state conviction for demanding a ransom in a kidnaping is not "an offense described in [18 U. S. C. §875]" under §1101(a)(43)(H), a state conviction for kidnaping or conspiring to kidnap may qualify as a crime of violence under §1101(a)(43)(F).  See United States v. Kaplansky, 42 F. 3d 320 (CA6 1994).
     And even under the majority's reading, a state-law conviction will only qualify as an aggravated felony if the "right state charge is filed."  Ante, at 14, n. 10.  For example, even on the majority's reading, a state-court defendant who sells a child for purposes of child pornography is unlikely to be convicted of "an offense described in [18 U. S. C.] §2251A," see §1101(a)(43)(I).  That is because virtually no States have a statute corresponding to 18 U. S. C. §2251A, with or without the interstate commerce element.  (But see Fla. Stat. §847.0145 (2015).)  Such a defendant may, however, be convicted of a state offense that qualifies as an aggravated felony for conspiring to commit sexual abuse of a minor under 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(U ) and 1101(a)(43)(A).
Footnote 2 Other crimes in the majority's list of serious offenses, ante, at 10-14, will be covered by these separate INA provisions.  For example, the Board of Immigration Appeals has held that any child pornography offense is a "crime involving moral turpitude," rendering a noncitizen removable in many cases.  See §§1227(a)(2)(A)(i), 1182(a)(2)(A)(i); In re Olquin-Rufino, 23 I. & N. Dec. 896 (BIA 2006).  Any offense involving a gun would make a noncitizen deportable under one of the catchall provisions for buying, selling, or possessing a firearm in violation of "any law."  See §1227(a)(2)(C).
Footnote 3 If the aggravated felony provisions were the primary mechanism for removing serious noncitizen criminals, we would expect any noncitizen convicted of an aggravated felony to face immigration consequences.  In fact, the aggravated felony provisions only apply to noncitizens who are lawfully admitted or later paroled.  Matter of Alyazji, 25 I. & N. Dec. 397, 399 (BIA 2011).  Other noncitizens--such as undocumented immigrants, noncitizens applying for a visa, or some legal permanent residents returning after an extended stay abroad--cannot be removed based on the conviction of an aggravated felony; the Government must rely on the other provisions of the INA, including the statute's other criminal provisions, to remove such noncitizens.  See §§1101(a)(13)(A), 1182, 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).
     Similarly, if the aggravated felony provision were the only way to ensure that the Attorney General exercised her discretion wisely, we would expect that discretion to be constrained as to all noncitizens who potentially pose a threat to the United States.  In fact, the Attorney General is not prevented from granting cancellation of removal--the discretionary relief at issue in this case--to, for instance, a noncitizen who has not been convicted of a crime but is removable for having "received military-type training" from a terrorist organization.  See §§1227(a)(4)(B), 1182(a)(3)(B)(i)(VIII), 1229b(a).
     In short, it cannot be the case that the aggravated felony provisions were intended to be the statute's sole mechanism for identifying the most dangerous noncitizens.
Footnote 4 When the proviso was added to the INA in 1990, it would have applied to an even greater fraction of the aggravated felonies: At that time, the aggravated felony statute listed only five offenses, four of which would have had state analogs even on Luna's reading.  See 104 Stat. 5048 (1990).





United States Supreme Court
KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE, ET AL.  v. DIN, (2015)
No. 13-1402
Argued: February 23, 2015    Decided: June 15, 2015


Respondent Fauzia Din petitioned to have her husband, Kanishka Berashk, a resident citizen of Afghanistan and former civil servant in the Taliban regime, classified as an "immediate relative" entitled to priority immigration status.  Din's petition was approved, but Berashk's visa application was ultimately denied.  A consular officer informed Berashk that he was inadmissible under §1182(a)(3)(B), which excludes aliens who have engaged in "[t]errorist activities," but the officer provided no further information.  Unable to obtain a more detailed explanation for Berashk's visa denial, Din filed suit in Federal District Court, which dismissed her complaint.  The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that Din had a protected liberty interest in her marriage that entitled her to review of the denial of Berashk's visa.  It further held that the Government deprived her of that liberty interest without due process when it denied Berashk's visa application without providing a more detailed explanation of its reasons. 
Held: The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded.
718 F. 3d 856, vacated and remanded.
     Justice Scalia, joined by The Chief Justice and Justice Thomas, concluded that the Government did not deprive Din of any constitutional right entitling her to due process of law.  Pp. 3-15.
     (a) Under a historical understanding of the Due Process Clause, Din cannot possibly claim that the denial of Berashk's visa application deprived her of life, liberty, or property.  Pp. 4-5.
     (b) Even accepting the textually unsupportable doctrine of implied fundamental rights, nothing in that line of cases establishes a free-floating and categorical liberty interest sufficient to trigger constitutional protection whenever a regulation touches upon any aspect of the marital relationship.  Even if those cases could be so broadly construed, the relevant question is not whether the asserted interest "is consistent with this Court's substantive-due-process line of cases," but whether it is supported by "this Nation's history and practice," Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 723-724.  Here, the Government's long practice of regulating immigration, which has included erecting serious impediments to a person's ability to bring a spouse into the United States, precludes Din's claim.  And this Court has consistently recognized its lack of "judicial authority to substitute [its] political judgment for that of Congress" with regard to the various distinctions in immigration policy.  Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 798.  Pp. 5-11.
     Justice Kennedy, joined by Justice Alito, concluded that there is no need to decide whether Din has a protected liberty interest, because, even assuming she does, the notice she received satisfied due process.  Pp. 1-6.
     (a) This conclusion is dictated by the reasoning of Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408 U. S. 753.  There the Court declined to balance the asserted First Amendment interest of college professors seeking a nonimmigrant visa for a revolutionary Marxist speaker against "Congress' 'plenary power to make rules for the admission of aliens,' " id., at 766, and limited its inquiry to whether the Government had provided a "facially legitimate and bona fide" reason for its action, id., at 770.  Mandel's reasoning has particular force here, where national security is involved.  Pp. 2-3.
     (b) Assuming that Din's rights were burdened directly by the visa denial, the consular officer's citation of §1182(a)(3)(B) satisfies Mandel's "facially legitimate and bona fide" standard.  Given Congress' plenary power to "suppl[y] the conditions of the privilege of entry into the United States," United States ex rel. Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U. S. 537, 543, the Government's decision to exclude Berashk because he did not satisfy a statutory condition for admissibility is facially legitimate.  Supporting this conclusion is the fact that, by Din's own admission, Berashk worked for the Taliban government.  These considerations lend to the conclusion that there was a bona fide factual basis for exclusion, absent an affirmative showing of bad faith on the consular officer's part, which Din has not plausibly alleged.  Pp. 4-6.
     Scalia, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which Roberts, C. J., and Thomas, J., joined.  Kennedy, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Alito, J., joined.  Breyer, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.

Opinion of Scalia, J.
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 13-1402
JOHN F. KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE, et al., PETITIONERS v. FAUZIA DIN
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 15, 2015]

     Justice Scalia announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which The Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join.
     Fauzia Din is a citizen and resident of the United States.  Her husband, Kanishka Berashk, is an Afghan citizen and former civil servant in the Taliban regime who resides in that country.  When the Government declined to issue an immigrant visa to Berashk, Din sued.
     The state action of which Din complains is the denial of Berashk's visa application.  Naturally, one would expect him--not Din--to bring this suit.  But because Berashk is an unadmitted and nonresident alien, he has no right of entry into the United States, and no cause of action to press in furtherance of his claim for admission.  See Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408 U. S. 753, 762 (1972).  So, Din attempts to bring suit on his behalf, alleging that the Government's denial of her husband's visa application violated her constitutional rights.  See App. 36-37, Complaint ¶56.  In particular, she claims that the Government denied her due process of law when, without adequate explanation of the reason for the visa denial, it deprived her of her constitutional right to live in the United States with her spouse.  There is no such constitutional right.  What Justice Breyer's dissent strangely describes as a "deprivation of her freedom to live together with her spouse in America," post, at 4-5, is, in any world other than the artificial world of ever-expanding constitutional rights, nothing more than a deprivation of her spouse's freedom to immigrate into America.
     For the reasons given in this opinion and in the opinion concurring in the judgment, we vacate and remand.
I
A
     Under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, as amended, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., an alien may not enter and permanently reside in the United States without a visa.  §1181(a).  The INA creates a special visa-application process for aliens sponsored by "immediate relatives" in the United States.  §§1151(b), 1153(a).  Under this process, the citizen-relative first files a petition on behalf of the alien living abroad, asking to have the alien classified as an immediate relative.  See §§1153(f), 1154(a)(1).  If and when a petition is approved, the alien may apply for a visa by submitting the required documents and appearing at a United States Embassy or consulate for an interview with a consular officer.  See §§1201(a)(1), 1202.  Before issuing a visa, the consular officer must ensure the alien is not inadmissible under any provision of the INA.  §1361.
     One ground for inadmissibility, §1182(a)(3)(B), covers "[t]errorist activities."  In addition to the violent and destructive acts the term immediately brings to mind, the INA defines "terrorist activity" to include providing material support to a terrorist organization and serving as a terrorist organization's representative.  §1182(a)(3)(B)(i), (iii)-(vi).
B
     Fauzia Din came to the United States as a refugee in 2000, and became a naturalized citizen in 2007.  She filed a petition to have Kanishka Berashk, whom she married in 2006, classified as her immediate relative.  The petition was granted, and Berashk filed a visa application.  The U. S. Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, interviewed Berashk and denied his application.  A consular officer informed Berashk that he was inadmissible under §1182(a)(3)(B) but provided no further explanation.
     Din then brought suit in Federal District Court seeking a writ of mandamus directing the United States to properly adjudicate Berashk's visa application; a declaratory judgment that 8 U. S. C. §1182(b)(2)-(3), which exempts the Government from providing notice to an alien found inadmissible under the terrorism bar, is unconstitutional as applied; and a declaratory judgment that the denial violated the Administrative Procedure Act.  App. 36-39, Complaint ¶¶55-68.  The District Court granted the Government's motion to dismiss, but the Ninth Circuit reversed.  The Ninth Circuit concluded that Din "has a protected liberty interest in marriage that entitled [her] to review of the denial of [her] spouse's visa," 718 F. 3d 856, 860 (2013), and that the Government's citation of §1182(a)(3)(B) did not provide Din with the "limited judicial review" to which she was entitled under the Due Process Clause, id., at 868.  This Court granted certiorari.  573 U. S. ___ (2014).
II
     The Fifth Amendment provides that "[n]o person shall be . . . deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."  Although the amount and quality of process that our precedents have recognized as "due" under the Clause has changed considerably since the founding, see Pacific Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Haslip, 499 U. S. 1, 28-36 (1991) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment), it remains the case that no process is due if one is not deprived of "life, liberty, or property," Swarthout v. Cooke, 562 U. S. 216, 219 (2011) (per curiam).  The first question that we must ask, then, is whether the denial of Berashk's visa application deprived Din of any of these interests.  Only if we answer in the affirmative must we proceed to consider whether the Government's explanation afforded sufficient process.
A
     The Due Process Clause has its origin in Magna Carta.  As originally drafted, the Great Charter provided that "[n]o freeman shall be taken, or imprisoned, or be disseised of his freehold, or liberties, or free customs, or be outlawed, or exiled, or any otherwise destroyed; nor will we not pass upon him, nor condemn him, but by lawful judgment of his peers, or by the law of the land."  Magna Carta, ch. 29, in 1 E. Coke, The Second Part of the Institutes of the Laws of England 45 (1797) (emphasis added).  The Court has recognized that at the time of the Fifth Amendment's ratification, the words "due process of law" were understood "to convey the same meaning as the words 'by the law of the land' " in Magna Carta.  Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 276 (1856).  Although the terminology associated with the guarantee of due process changed dramatically between 1215 and 1791, the general scope of the underlying rights protected stayed roughly constant.
     Edward Coke, whose Institutes "were read in the American Colonies by virtually every student of law," Klopfer v. North Carolina, 386 U. S. 213, 225 (1967), thoroughly described the scope of the interests that could be deprived only pursuant to "the law of the land."  Magna Carta, he wrote, ensured that, without due process, "no man [may] be taken or imprisoned"; "disseised of his lands, or tenements, or dispossessed of his goods, or chattels"; "put from his livelihood without answer"; "barred to have the benefit of the law"; denied "the franchises, and priviledges, which the subjects have of the gift of the king"; "exiled"; or "fore-judged of life, or limbe, disherited, or put to torture, or death."  1 Coke, supra, at 46-48.  Blackstone's description of the rights protected by Magna Carta is similar, although he discusses them in terms much closer to the "life, liberty, or property" terminology used in the Fifth Amendment.  He described first an interest in "personal security," "consist[ing] in a person's legal and uninterrupted enjoyment of his life, his limbs, his body, his health, and his reputation."  1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 125 (1769).  Second, the "personal liberty of individuals" "consist[ed] in the power of loco-motion, of changing situation, or removing one's person to whatsoever place one's own inclination may direct; without imprisonment or restraint."  Id., at 130.  And finally, a person's right to property included "the free use, enjoyment, and disposal of all his acquisitions."  Id., at 134.
     Din, of course, could not conceivably claim that the denial of Berashk's visa application deprived her--or for that matter even Berashk--of life or property; and under the above described historical understanding, a claim that it deprived her of liberty is equally absurd.  The Government has not "taken or imprisoned" Din, nor has it "confine[d]" her, either by "keeping [her] against h[er] will in a private house, putting h[er] in the stocks, arresting or forcibly detaining h[er] in the street."  Id., at 132.  Indeed, not even Berashk has suffered a deprivation of liberty so understood.
B
     Despite this historical evidence, this Court has seen fit on several occasions to expand the meaning of "liberty" under the Due Process Clause to include certain implied "fundamental rights."  (The reasoning presumably goes like this: If you have a right to do something, you are free to do it, and deprivation of freedom is a deprivation of "liberty"--never mind the original meaning of that word in the Due Process Clause.)  These implied rights have been given more protection than "life, liberty, or property" properly understood.  While one may be dispossessed of property, thrown in jail, or even executed so long as proper procedures are followed, the enjoyment of implied constitutional rights cannot be limited at all, except by provisions that are "narrowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest."  Reno v. Flores, 507 U. S. 292, 301-302 (1993).  Din does not explicitly argue that the Government has violated this absolute prohibition of the substantive component of the Due Process Clause, likely because it is obvious that a law barring aliens engaged in terrorist activities from entering this country is narrowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest.  She nevertheless insists that, because enforcement of the law affects her enjoyment of an implied fundamental liberty, the Government must first provide her a full battery of procedural-due-process protections.
     I think it worth explaining why, even if one accepts the textually unsupportable doctrine of implied fundamental rights, Din's arguments would fail.  Because "extending constitutional protection to an asserted right or liberty interest . . . place[s] the matter outside the arena of public debate and legislative action," Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 720 (1997), and because the "guideposts for responsible decisionmaking in this unchartered area are scarce and open-ended," Collins v. Harker Heights, 503 U. S. 115, 125 (1992), "[t]he doctrine of judicial self-restraint requires us to exercise the utmost care whenever we are asked to break new ground in this field," ibid.  Accordingly, before conferring constitutional status upon a previously unrecognized "liberty," we have required "a careful description of the asserted fundamental liberty interest," as well as a demonstration that the interest is "objectively, deeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition, and implicit in the concept of ordered liberty, such that neither liberty nor justice would exist if [it was] sacrificed."  Glucksberg, supra, at 720-721 (citations and internal quotation marks omitted).
     Din describes the denial of Berashk's visa application as implicating, alternately, a "liberty interest in her marriage," Brief for Respondent 28, a "right of association with one's spouse," id., at 18, "a liberty interest in being reunited with certain blood relatives," id., at 22, and "the liberty interest of a U. S. citizen under the Due Process Clause to be free from arbitrary restrictions on his right to live with his spouse," ibid.  To be sure, this Court has at times indulged a propensity for grandiloquence when reviewing the sweep of implied rights, describing them so broadly that they would include not only the interests Din asserts but many others as well.  For example: "Without doubt, [the liberty guaranteed by the Due Process Clause] denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint but also the right of the individual to contract, to engage in any of the common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge, to marry, establish a home and bring up children, [and] to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience"  Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399 (1923).  But this Court is not bound by dicta, especially dicta that have been repudiated by the holdings of our subsequent cases.  And the actual holdings of the cases Din relies upon hardly establish the capacious right she now asserts.
     Unlike the States in Loving v. Virginia, 388 U. S. 1 (1967), Zablocki v. Redhail, 434 U. S. 374 (1978), and Turner v. Safley, 482 U. S. 78 (1987), the Federal Government here has not attempted to forbid a marriage.  Although Din and the dissent borrow language from those cases invoking a fundamental right to marriage, they both implicitly concede that no such right has been infringed in this case.  Din relies on the "associational interests in marriage that necessarily are protected by the right to marry," and that are "presuppose[d]" by later cases establishing a right to marital privacy.  Brief for Respondent 16, 18.  The dissent supplements the fundamental right to marriage with a fundamental right to live in the United States in order to find an affected liberty interest.  Post, at 2-3 (Breyer, J., dissenting).
     Attempting to abstract from these cases some liberty interest that might be implicated by Berashk's visa denial, Din draws on even more inapposite cases.  Meyer, for example, invalidated a state statute proscribing the teaching of foreign language to children who had not yet passed the eighth grade, reasoning that it violated the teacher's "right thus to teach and the right of parents to engage him so to instruct their children."  262 U. S., at 400.  Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 534-535 (1925), extended Meyer, finding that a law requiring children to attend public schools "interferes with the liberty of parents and guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children under their control."  Moore v. East Cleveland, 431 U. S. 494, 505-506 (1977), extended this interest in raising children to caretakers in a child's extended family, striking down an ordinance that limited occupancy of a single-family house to members of a nuclear family on the ground that "[d]ecisions concerning child rearing . . . long have been shared with grandparents or other relatives."  And Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U. S. 479, 485 (1965), concluded that a law criminalizing the use of contraceptives by married couples violated "penumbral rights of 'privacy and repose' " protecting "the sacred precincts of the marital bedroom"--rights which do not plausibly extend into the offices of our consulates abroad.
     Nothing in the cases Din cites establishes a free-floating and categorical liberty interest in marriage (or any other formulation Din offers) sufficient to trigger constitutional protection whenever a regulation in any way touches upon an aspect of the marital relationship.  Even if our cases could be construed so broadly, the relevant question is not whether the asserted interest "is consistent with this Court's substantive-due-process line of cases," but whether it is supported by "this Nation's history and practice."  Glucksberg, 521 U. S., at 723-724 (emphasis deleted).  Even if we might "imply" a liberty interest in marriage generally speaking, that must give way when there is a tradition denying the specific application of that general interest.  Thus, Glucksberg rejected a claimed liberty interest in "self-sovereignty" and "personal autonomy" that extended to assisted suicide when there was a longstanding tradition of outlawing the practice of suicide.  Id., at 724, 727-728 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     Here, a long practice of regulating spousal immigration precludes Din's claim that the denial of Berashk's visa application has deprived her of a fundamental liberty interest.  Although immigration was effectively unregulated prior to 1875, as soon as Congress began legislating in this area it enacted a complicated web of regulations that erected serious impediments to a person's ability to bring a spouse into the United States.  See Abrams, What Makes the Family Special? 80 U. Chi. L. Rev. 7, 10-16 (2013).
     Most strikingly, perhaps, the Expatriation Act of 1907 provided that "any American woman who marries a foreigner shall take the nationality of her husband."  Ch. 2534, 34 Stat. 1228.  Thus, a woman in Din's position not only lacked a liberty interest that might be affected by the Government's disposition of her husband's visa application, she lost her own rights as a citizen upon marriage.  When Congress began to impose quotas on immigration by country of origin less than 15 years later, with the Immigration Act of 1921, it omitted fiances and husbands from the family relations eligible for preferred status in the allocation of quota spots.  §2(d), 42 Stat. 6.  Such relations were similarly excluded from the relations eligible for nonquota status, when that status was expanded three years later.  Immigration Act of 1924, §4(a), 43 Stat. 155.
     To be sure, these early regulations were premised on the derivative citizenship of women, a legacy of the law of coverture that was already in decline at the time.  C. Bredbenner, A Nationality of Her Own 5 (1998).  Modern equal-protection doctrine casts substantial doubt on the permissibility of such asymmetric treatment of women citizens in the immigration context, and modern moral judgment rejects the premises of such a legal order.  Nevertheless, this all-too-recent practice repudiates any contention that Din's asserted liberty interest is "deeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition, and implicit in the concept of ordered liberty." Glucksberg, supra, at 720 (citations and internal quotations marks omitted).
     Indeed, the law showed little more solicitude for the marital relationship when it was a male resident or citizen seeking admission for his fiancee or wife.  The Immigration Act of 1921 granted nonquota status only to unmarried, minor children of citizens, §2(a), while granting fiancees and wives preferred status within the allocation of quota spots, §2(d).  In other words, a citizen could move his spouse forward in the line, but once all the quota spots were filled for the year, the spouse was barred without exception.  This was not just a theoretical possibility: As one commentator has observed, "[f]or many immigrants, the family categories did little to help, because the quotas were so small that the number of family members seeking slots far outstripped the number available."  Abrams, supra, at 13.
     Although Congress has tended to show "a continuing and kindly concern . . . for the unity and the happiness of the immigrant family," E. Hutchinson, Legislative History of American Immigration Policy 1798-1965, p. 518 (1981), this has been a matter of legislative grace rather than fundamental right.  Even where Congress has provided special privileges to promote family immigration, it has also "written in careful checks and qualifications."  Ibid.  This Court has consistently recognized that these various distinctions are "policy questions entrusted exclusively to the political branches of our Government, and we have no judicial authority to substitute our political judgment for that of the Congress."  Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 798 (1977).  Only by diluting the meaning of a fundamental liberty interest and jettisoning our established jurisprudence could we conclude that the denial of Berashk's visa application implicates any of Din's fundamental liberty interests.
C
     Justice Breyer suggests that procedural due process rights attach to liberty interests that either are (1) created by nonconstitutional law, such as a statute, or (2) "sufficiently important" so as to "flow 'implicit[ly]' from the design, object, and nature of the Due Process Clause."  Post, at 2.
     The first point is unobjectionable, at least given this Court's case law.  See, e.g., Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 262, and  n. 8 (1970); Collins 503 U. S., at 129.  But it is unhelpful to Din, who does not argue that a statute confers on her a liberty interest protected by the Due Process Clause.  Justice Breyer attempts to make this argument for Din, latching onto language in Wilkinson v. Austin, 545 U. S. 209, 221 (2005), saying that a liberty interest "may arise from an expectation or interest created by state laws or policies."  Such an "expectation" has been created here, he asserts, because "the law . . . surrounds marriage with a host of legal protections to the point that it creates a strong expectation that government will not deprive married individuals of their freedom to live together without strong reasons and (in individual cases) without fair procedure," post, at 3.  But what Wilkinson meant by an "expectation or interest" was not that sort of judicially unenforceable substantial hope, but a present and legally recognized substantive entitlement.*  As sole support for its conclusion that nonconstitutional law can create constitutionally protected liberty interests, Wilkinson cited Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U. S. 539, 556-558 (1974), which held that a prisoner could not be deprived of statutory good-time credit without procedural due process.  That was not because a prisoner might have " 'a strong expectation' " that the government would not deprive him of good-time credit " 'without strong reasons' " or " 'fair procedure,' " but because "the State itself has not only provided a statutory right to good time [credit] but also specifies that it is to be forfeited only for serious misbehavior," id., at 557 (emphasis added).  The legal benefits afforded to marriages and the preferential treatment accorded to visa applicants with citizen relatives are insufficient to confer on Din a right that can be deprived only pursuant to procedural due process.
     Justice Breyer's second point--that procedural due process rights attach even to some nonfundamental liberty interests that have not been created by statute--is much more troubling.  He relies on the implied-fundamental-rights cases discussed above to divine a "right of spouses to live together and to raise a family," along with "a citizen's right to live within this country."  Post, at 2-3.  But perhaps recognizing that our established methodology for identifying fundamental rights cuts against his conclusion, see Part II-B, supra, he argues that the term "liberty" in the Due Process Clause includes implied rights that, although not so fundamental as to deserve substantive-due-process protection, are important enough to deserve procedural-due-process protection.  Post, at 2.  In other words, there are two categories of implied rights protected by the Due Process Clause: really fundamental rights, which cannot be taken away at all absent a compelling state interest; and not-so-fundamental rights, which can be taken away so long as procedural due process is observed.
     The dissent fails to cite a single case supporting its novel theory of implied nonfundamental rights.  It is certainly true that Vitek v. Jones, 445 U. S. 480 (1980), and Washington v. Harper, 494 U. S. 210 (1990), do not entail implied fundamental rights, but this is because they do not entail implied rights at all.  Vitek concerned the involuntary commitment of a prisoner, deprivation of the expressly protected right of liberty under the original understanding of the term, see Part II-A, supra.  " 'Among the historic liberties' protected by the Due Process Clause is the 'right to be free from, and to obtain judicial relief for, unjustified intrusions on personal security.' "  Vitek, supra, at 492.  The same is true of Harper, which concerned forced administration of psychotropic drugs to an inmate.  494 U. S., at 214.  Arguably, Paul v. Davis, 424 U. S. 693 (1976), also addressed an interest expressly contemplated within the meaning of "liberty."  See 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 125 ("The right of personal security consists in a person's . . . reputation").  But that case is of no help to the dissent anyway, since it found no liberty interest entitled to the Due Process Clause's protection.  Paul, supra, at 713-714.  Finally, the dissent points to Goss v. Lopez, 419 U. S. 565, 574 (1975), a case that "recognize[d] . . . as a property interest" a student's right to a public education conferred by Ohio's express statutory creation of a public school system; and further concluded that the student's 10-day suspension implicated the constitutionally grounded liberty interest in " 'a person's good name, reputation, honor, or integrity.' "
     Ultimately, the dissent identifies no case holding that there is an implied nonfundamental right protected by procedural due process, and only one case even suggesting that there is.  That suggestion, in Smith v. Organization of Foster Families For Equality & Reform, 431 U. S. 816 (1977), is contained in dictum in a footnote, id., at 842, n. 48.  The holding of the case was that "the procedures provided by New York State . . . and by New York Cit[y] . . . are adequate to protect whatever liberty interests appellees may have."  Id., at 856 (emphasis added).
     The footnoted dictum that Justice Breyer proposes to elevate to constitutional law is a dangerous doctrine.  It vastly expands the scope of our implied-rights jurisprudence by setting it free from the requirement that the liberty interest be "objectively, deeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition, and implicit in the concept of ordered liberty," Glucksberg, 521 U. S., at 720-721 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Even shallow-rooted liberties would, thanks to this new procedural-rights-only notion of quasi-fundamental rights, qualify for judicially imposed procedural requirements.  Moreover, Justice Breyer gives no basis for distinguishing the fundamental rights recognized in the cases he depends on from the nonfundamental right he believes they give rise to in the present case.
     Neither Din's right to live with her spouse nor her right to live within this country is implicated here.  There is a "simple distinction between government action that directly affects a citizen's legal rights, or imposes a direct restraint on his liberty, and action that is directed against a third party and affects the citizen only indirectly or incidentally."  O'Bannon v. Town Court Nursing Center, 447 U. S. 773, 788 (1980).  The Government has not refused to recognize Din's marriage to Berashk, and Din remains free to live with her husband anywhere in the world that both individuals are permitted to reside.  And the Government has not expelled Din from the country.  It has simply determined that Kanishka Berashk engaged in terrorist activities within the meaning of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and has therefore denied him admission into the country.  This might, indeed, deprive Din of something "important," post, at 2, but if that is the criterion for Justice Breyer's new pairing of substantive and procedural due process, we are in for quite a ride.
*  *  *
     Because Fauzia Din was not deprived of "life, liberty, or property" when the Government denied Kanishka Berashk admission to the United States, there is no process due to her under the Constitution.  To the extent that she received any explanation for the Government's decision, this was more than the Due Process Clause required.  The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings.
It is so ordered.

Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-1402
JOHN F. KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE, et al., PETITIONERS v. FAUZIA DIN
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 15, 2015]

     Justice Kennedy, with whom Justice Alito joins, concurring in the judgment.
     The respondent, Fauzia Din, is a citizen and resident of the United States.  She asserts that petitioner Government officials (collectively, Government) violated her own constitutional right to live in this country with her husband, an alien now residing in Afghanistan.  She contends this violation occurred when the Government, through State Department consular officials, denied her spouse's immigrant visa application with no explanation other than that the denial was based on 8 U. S. C. §1182(a)(3)(B), the statutory provision prohibiting the issuance of visas to persons who engage in terrorist activities.
     The plurality is correct that the case must be vacated and remanded.  But rather than deciding, as the plurality does, whether Din has a protected liberty interest, my view is that, even assuming she does, the notice she received regarding her husband's visa denial satisfied due process.
     Today's disposition should not be interpreted as deciding whether a citizen has a protected liberty interest in the visa application of her alien spouse.  The Court need not decide that issue, for this Court's precedents instruct that, even assuming she has such an interest, the Government satisfied due process when it notified Din's husband that his visa was denied under the immigration statute's terrorism bar, §1182(a)(3)(B).  See ante, at 2.
I
     The conclusion that Din received all the process to which she was entitled finds its most substantial instruction in the Court's decision in Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408 U. S. 753 (1972).  There, college professors--all of them citizens--had invited Dr. Ernest Mandel, a self-described " 'revolutionary Marxist,' " to speak at a conference at Stanford University.  Id., at 756.  Yet when Mandel applied for a temporary nonimmigrant visa to enter the country, he was denied.  At the time, the immigration laws deemed aliens "who advocate[d] the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of World communism" ineligible for visas.  §1182(a)(28)(D) (1964 ed.).  Aliens ineligible under this provision did have one opportunity for recourse: The Attorney General was given discretion to waive the prohibition and grant individual exceptions, allowing the alien to obtain a temporary visa.  §1182(d)(3).  For Mandel, however, the Attorney General, acting through the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), declined to grant a waiver.  In a letter regarding this decision, the INS explained Mandel had exceeded the scope and terms of temporary visas on past trips to the United States, which the agency deemed a " 'flagrant abuse of the opportunities afforded him to express his views in this country.' "  408 U. S., at 759.
     The professors who had invited Mandel to speak challenged the INS' decision, asserting a First Amendment right to " 'hear his views and engage him in a free and open academic exchange.' "  Id., at 760.  They claimed the Attorney General infringed this right when he refused to grant Mandel relief.  See ibid.
     The Court declined to balance the First Amendment interest of the professors against "Congress' 'plenary power to make rules for the admission of aliens and to exclude those who possess those characteristics which Congress has forbidden.' "  Id., at 766, 768 (citation omitted).  To do so would require "courts in each case . . . to weigh the strength of the audience's interest against that of the Government in refusing a [visa] to the particular applicant," a nuanced and difficult decision Congress had "properly . . . placed in the hands of the Executive."  Id.,  at 769.
     Instead, the Court limited its inquiry to the question whether the Government had provided a "facially legitimate and bona fide" reason for its action.  Id., at 770.  Finding the Government had proffered such a reason--Mandel's abuse of past visas--the Court ended its inquiry and found the Attorney General's action to be lawful.  See ibid.  The Court emphasized it did not address "[w]hat First Amendment or other grounds may be available for attacking an exercise of discretion for which no justification whatsoever is advanced."  Ibid.
     The reasoning and the holding in Mandel control here.  That decision was based upon due consideration of the congressional power to make rules for the exclusion of aliens, and the ensuing power to delegate authority to the Attorney General to exercise substantial discretion in that field.  Mandel held that an executive officer's decision denying a visa that burdens a citizen's own constitutional rights is valid when it is made "on the basis of a facially legitimate and bona fide reason."  Id., at 770.  Once this standard is met, "courts will neither look behind the exercise of that discretion, nor test it by balancing its justification against" the constitutional interests of citizens the visa denial might implicate.  Ibid.  This reasoning has particular force in the area of national security, for which Congress has provided specific statutory directions pertaining to visa applications by noncitizens who seek entry to this country.
II
     Like the professors who sought an audience with Dr. Mandel, Din claims her constitutional rights were burdened by the denial of a visa to a noncitizen, namely her husband.  And as in Mandel, the Government provided a reason for the visa denial: It concluded Din's husband was inadmissible under §1182(a)(3)(B)'s terrorism bar.  Even assuming Din's rights were burdened directly by the visa denial, the remaining question is whether the reasons given by the Government satisfy Mandel's "facially legitimate and bona fide" standard.  I conclude that they do.
     Here, the consular officer's determination that Din's husband was ineligible for a visa was controlled by specific statutory factors.  The provisions of §1182(a)(3)(B) establish specific criteria for determining terrorism-related inadmissibility.  The consular officer's citation of that provision suffices to show that the denial rested on a determination that Din's husband did not satisfy the statute's requirements.  Given Congress' plenary power to "suppl[y] the conditions of the privilege of entry into the United States," United States ex rel. Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U. S. 537, 543 (1950), it follows that the Government's decision to exclude an alien it determines does not satisfy one or more of those conditions is facially legitimate under Mandel.
     The Government's citation of §1182(a)(3)(B) also indicates it relied upon a bona fide factual basis for denying a visa to Berashk.  Cf. United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc., 272 U. S. 1, 14-15 (1926).  Din claims due process requires she be provided with the facts underlying this determination, arguing Mandel required a similar factual basis.  It is true the Attorney General there disclosed the facts motivating his decision to deny Dr. Mandel a waiver, and that the Court cited those facts as demonstrating "the Attorney General validly exercised the plenary power that Congress delegated to the Executive."  408 U. S., at 769.  But unlike the waiver provision at issue in Mandel, which granted the Attorney General nearly unbridled discretion, §1182(a)(3)(B) specifies discrete factual predicates the consular officer must find to exist before denying a visa.  Din, moreover, admits in her Complaint that Berashk worked for the Taliban government, App. 27-28, which, even if itself insufficient to support exclusion, provides at least a facial connection to terrorist activity.  Absent an affirmative showing of bad faith on the part of the consular officer who denied Berashk a visa--which Din has not plausibly alleged with sufficient particularity--Mandel instructs us not to "look behind" the Government's exclusion of Berashk for additional factual details beyond what its express reliance on §1182(a)(3)(B) encompassed.  See 408 U. S., at 770.
     The Government, furthermore, was not required, as Din claims, to point to a more specific provision within §1182(a)(3)(B).  To be sure, the statutory provision the consular officer cited covers a broad range of conduct.  And Din perhaps more easily could mount a challenge to her husband's visa denial if she knew the specific subsection on which the consular officer relied.  Congress understood this problem, however.  The statute generally requires the Government to provide an alien denied a visa with the "specific provision or provisions of law under which the alien is inadmissible," §1182(b)(1); but this notice requirement does not apply when, as in this case, a visa application is denied due to terrorism or national security concerns.  §1182(b)(3).  Notably, the Government is not prohibited from offering more details when it sees fit, but the statute expressly refrains from requiring it to do so.
     Congress evaluated the benefits and burdens of notice in this sensitive area and assigned discretion to the Executive to decide when more detailed disclosure is appropriate.  This considered judgment gives additional support to the independent conclusion that the notice given was constitutionally adequate, particularly in light of the national security concerns the terrorism bar addresses.  See Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 795-796 (1977); see also INS v. Aguirre-Aguirre, 526 U. S. 415, 425 (1999).  And even if Din is correct that sensitive facts could be reviewed by courts in camera, the dangers and difficulties of handling such delicate security material further counsel against requiring disclosure in a case such as this.  Under Mandel, respect for the political branches' broad power over the creation and administration of the immigration system extends to determinations of how much information the Government is obliged to disclose about a consular officer's denial of a visa to an alien abroad.
     For these reasons, my conclusion is that the Government satisfied any obligation it might have had to provide Din with a facially legitimate and bona fide reason for its action when it provided notice that her husband was denied admission to the country under §1182(a)(3)(B).  By requiring the Government to provide more, the Court of Appeals erred in adjudicating Din's constitutional claims.

Breyer, J., dissenting
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-1402
JOHN F. KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE, et al., PETITIONERS v. FAUZIA DIN
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 15, 2015]

     Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.
     Fauzia Din, an American citizen, wants to know why the State Department denied a visa to her husband, a noncitizen.  She points out that, without a visa, she and her husband will have to spend their married lives separately or abroad.  And she argues that the Department, in refusing to provide an adequate reason for the denial, has violated the constitutional requirement that "[n]o person . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."  U. S. Const., Amdt. 5.
     In my view, Ms. Din should prevail on this constitutional claim.  She possesses the kind of "liberty" interest to which the Due Process Clause grants procedural protection.  And the Government has failed to provide her with the procedure that is constitutionally "due."  See Swarthout v. Cooke, 562 U. S. 216, 219 (2011) (per curiam) (setting forth the Court's two-step inquiry for procedural due process claims).  Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment of the Ninth Circuit.
I
     The plurality opinion (which is not controlling) concludes that Ms. Din lacks the kind of liberty interest to which the Due Process Clause provides procedural protections.  Ante, at 3-15.  Justice Kennedy's opinion "assum[es]" that Ms. Din possesses that kind of liberty interest.  Ante, at 1 (opinion concurring in judgment) (emphasis added).  I agree with Justice Kennedy's assumption.  More than that, I believe that Ms. Din possesses that kind of constitutional interest.
     The liberty interest that Ms. Din seeks to protect consists of her freedom to live together with her husband in the United States.  She seeks procedural, not substantive, protection for this freedom.  Compare Wilkinson v. Austin, 545 U. S. 209, 221 (2005) (Due Process Clause requires compliance with fair procedures when the government deprives an individual of certain "liberty" or "property" interests), with Reno v. Flores, 507 U. S. 292, 302 (1993) (Due Process Clause limits the extent to which government can substantively regulate certain "fundamental" rights, "no matter what process is provided").  Cf. Smith v. Organization of Foster Families For Equality & Reform, 431 U. S. 816, 842, n. 48 (1977) (liberty interests arising under the Constitution for procedural due process purposes are not the same as fundamental rights requiring substantive due process protection).
     Our cases make clear that the Due Process Clause entitles her to such procedural rights as long as (1) she seeks protection for a liberty interest sufficiently important for procedural protection to flow "implicit[ly]" from the design, object, and nature of the Due Process Clause, or (2) nonconstitutional law (a statute, for example) creates "an expectation" that a person will not be deprived of that kind of liberty without fair procedures.  Wilkinson, supra, at 221.
     The liberty for which Ms. Din seeks protection easily satisfies both standards.  As this Court has long recognized, the institution of marriage, which encompasses the right of spouses to live together and to raise a family, is central to human life, requires and enjoys community support, and plays a central role in most individuals' "orderly pursuit of happiness," Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399 (1923).  See also, e.g., Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U. S. 479, 485-486 (1965); Zablocki v. Redhail, 434 U. S. 374, 386 (1978); Moore v. East Cleveland, 431 U. S. 494, 500-503 (1977) (plurality opinion); Smith, supra, at 843.  Similarly, the Court has long recognized that a citizen's right to live within this country, being fundamental, enjoys basic procedural due process protection.  See Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284-285 (1922); Baumgartner v. United States, 322 U. S. 665, 670 (1944).
     At the same time, the law, including visa law, surrounds marriage with a host of legal protections to the point that it creates a strong expectation that government will not deprive married individuals of their freedom to live together without strong reasons and (in individual cases) without fair procedure.  Cf. Turner v. Safley, 482 U. S. 78, 95-96 (1987) (noting various legal benefits of marriage); 8 U. S. C. §1151(b)(2)(A)(i) (special visa preference for spouse of an American citizen).  Justice Scalia's response--that nonconstitutional law creates an "expectation" that merits procedural protection under the Due Process Clause only if there is an unequivocal statutory right, ante, at 11-12--is sorely mistaken.  His argument rests on the rights/privilege distinction that this Court rejected almost five decades ago, in the seminal case of Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 262 (1970).  See generally Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408 U. S. 564, 571 (1972) ("[T]he Court has fully and finally rejected the wooden distinction between 'rights' and 'privileges' that once seemed to govern the applicability of procedural due process rights"); id., at 572 ("In a Constitution for a free people, there can be no doubt that the meaning of 'liberty' must be broad indeed").
     Justice Scalia's more general response--claiming that I have created a new category of constitutional rights, ante, at 12-15--misses the mark.  I break no new ground here.  Rather, this Court has already recognized that the Due Process Clause guarantees that the government will not, without fair procedure, deprive individuals of a host of rights, freedoms, and liberties that are no more important, and for which the state has created no greater expectation of continued benefit, than the liberty interest at issue here.  See, e.g., Wolff v. McDonnell, 418 U. S. 539, 556-557 (1974) (prisoner's right to maintain "goodtime" credits shortening term of imprisonment; procedurally protected liberty interest based on nonconstitutional law); Paul v. Davis, 424 U. S. 693, 701 (1976) (right to certain aspects of reputation; procedurally protected liberty interest arising under the Constitution); Goss v. Lopez, 419 U. S. 565, 574-575 (1975) (student's right not to be suspended from school class; procedurally protected liberty interest arising under the Constitution); Vitek v. Jones, 445 U. S. 480, 491-495 (1980) (prisoner's right against involuntary commitment; procedurally protected liberty interest arising under the Constitution); Washington v. Harper, 494 U. S. 210, 221-222 (1990) (mentally ill prisoner's right not to take psychotropic drugs; procedurally protected liberty interest arising under the Constitution); see generally Goldberg, supra, at 262-263 (right to welfare benefits; procedurally protected property interest based on nonconstitutional law).  But cf. ante, at 12-14 (plurality opinion) (making what I believe are unsuccessful efforts to distinguish these cases).  How could a Constitution that protects individuals against the arbitrary deprivation of so diverse a set of interests not also offer some form of procedural protection to a citizen threatened with governmental deprivation of her freedom to live together with her spouse in America?  As compared to reputational harm, for example, how is Ms. Din's liberty interest any less worthy of due process protections?
II
A
     The more difficult question is the nature of the procedural protection required by the Constitution.  After all, sometimes, as with the military draft, the law separates spouses with little individualized procedure.  And sometimes, as with criminal convictions, the law provides procedure to one spouse but not to the other.  Unlike criminal convictions, however, neither spouse here has received any procedural protection.  Cf. Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U. S. 651 (1977) (availability of alternative procedures can satisfy due process).  Compare Shaughnessy v. United States ex rel. Mezei, 345 U. S. 206, 213 (1953) (no due process protections for aliens outside United States), with Zadvydas v. Davis, 533 U. S. 678, 693 (2001) (such protections are available for aliens inside United States).  And, unlike the draft (justified by a classic military threat), the deprivation does not apply similarly to hundreds of thousands of American families.  Cf. Bi-Metallic Investment Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization of Colo., 239 U. S. 441, 445 (1915).
     Rather, here, the Government makes individualized visa determinations through the application of a legal rule to particular facts.  Individualized adjudication normally calls for the ordinary application of Due Process Clause procedures.  Londoner v. City and County of Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 385-386 (1908).  And those procedures normally include notice of an adverse action, an opportunity to present relevant proofs and arguments, before a neutral decisionmaker, and reasoned decisionmaking.  See Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, 542 U. S. 507, 533 (2004) (plurality opinion); see also Friendly, Some Kind of a Hearing, 123 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1267, 1278-1281 (1975).  These procedural protections help to guarantee that government will not make a decision directly affecting an individual arbitrarily but will do so through the reasoned application of a rule of law.  It is that rule of law, stretching back at least 800 years to Magna Carta, which in major part the Due Process Clause seeks to protect.  Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 527 (1884).
     Here, we need not consider all possible procedural due process elements.  Rather we consider only the minimum procedure that Ms. Din has requested--namely, a statement of reasons, some kind of explanation, as to why the State Department denied her husband a visa.
     We have often held that this kind of statement, permitting an individual to understand why the government acted as it did, is a fundamental element of due process.  See, e.g., Goldberg, 397 U. S., at 267-268; Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593, 603 (1972); Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S. 471, 485, 489 (1972); Wolff, supra, at 563-564; Goss, supra, at 581; Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319, 345-346 (1976); Cleveland Bd. of Ed. v. Loudermill, 470 U. S. 532, 546 (1985); Wilkinson, 545 U. S., at 224; Hamdi, supra, at 533 (plurality opinion).
     That is so in part because a statement of reasons, even one provided after a visa denial, serves much the same function as a "notice" of a proposed action.  It allows Ms. Din, who suffered a "serious loss," a fair "opportunity to meet" "the case" that has produced separation from her husband. See Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 171-172 (1951) (Frankfurter, J., concurring); see also Hamdi, supra, at 533 (plurality opinion); Wolff, supra, at 563; Friendly, supra, at 1280 ("notice" must provide "the grounds for" the relevant action).  Properly apprised of the grounds for the Government's action, Ms. Din can then take appropriate action--whether this amounts to an appeal, internal agency review, or (as is likely here) an opportunity to submit additional evidence and obtain reconsideration, 22 CFR 42.81(e) (2014).
     I recognize that our due process cases often determine the constitutional insistence upon a particular procedure by balancing, with respect to that procedure, the "private interest" at stake, "the risk of an erroneous deprivation" absent the sought-after protection, and the Government's interest in not providing additional procedure.  Eldridge, supra, at 335; but cf. Hamdi, supra, at 533 (plurality opinion) (suggesting minimal due process requirements cannot be balanced away).  Here "balancing" would not change the result.  The "private interest" is important, the risk of an "erroneous deprivation" is significant, and the Government's interest in not providing a reason is normally small, at least administratively speaking.  Indeed, Congress requires the State Department to provide a reason for a visa denial in most contexts.  8 U. S. C. §1182(b)(1).  Accordingly, in the absence of some highly unusual circumstance (not shown to be present here, see infra, at 9), the Constitution requires the Government to provide an adequate reason why it refused to grant Ms. Din's husband a visa.  That reason, in my view, could be either the factual basis for the Government's decision or a sufficiently specific statutory subsection that conveys effectively the same information.
B
1
     Justice Kennedy, without denying that Ms. Din was entitled to a reason, believes that she received an adequate reason here.  According to the complaint, however, the State Department's denial letter stated only that the visa "had been denied under . . . 8 U. S. C. §1182(a)."  App. 30.  In response to requests for further explanation, the State Department sent an e-mail stating that the visa "had been denied under . . . 8 U. S. C. §1182 (a)(3)(B)--the terrorism and national security bars to admissibility."  Id., at 31.  I do not see how either statement could count as adequate.
     For one thing, the statutory provision to which it refers, §1182(a)(3)(B), sets forth, not one reason, but dozens.  It is a complex provision with 10 different subsections, many of which cross-reference other provisions of law.  See Appendix, infra.  Some parts cover criminal conduct that is particularly serious, such as hijacking aircraft and assassination.  §§1182(a)(3)(B)(iii)(I), (IV).  Other parts cover activity that, depending on the factual circumstances, cannot easily be labeled "terrorist."  One set of cross-referenced subsections, for example, brings within the section's visa prohibition any individual who has "transfer[red] . . . [any] material financial benefit" to "a group of two or more individuals, whether organized or not, which . . . has a subgroup which engages" in "afford[ing] material support . . . for . . . any individual who . . . plans" "[t]he use of any . . . weapon . . . with intent . . . to cause substantial damage to property." §§1182(a)(3)(B)(iv)(VI), (vi)(III), (iv)(VI)(bb), (iii)(V).  At the same time, some subsections provide the visa applicant with a defense; others do not.  See, e.g., §1182(a)(3)(B)(iv)(VI)(dd) (permitting applicant to show "by clear and convincing evidence that the actor did not know, and should not reasonably have known, that the organization was a terrorist organization").  Taken together the subsections, directly or through cross-reference, cover a vast waterfront of human activity potentially benefitting, sometimes in major ways, sometimes hardly at all, sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, sometimes a few people, sometimes many, sometimes those with strong links, sometimes those with hardly a link, to a loosely or strongly connected group of individuals, which, through many different kinds of actions, might fall within the broad statutorily defined term "terrorist."  See, e.g., Daneshvar v. Ashcroft, 355 F. 3d 615, 628 (CA6 2004) (alleging material support for selling newspapers); Singh v. Wiles, 747 F. Supp. 2d 1223, 1227 (WD Wash. 2010) (alleging material support for letting individuals sleep on a temple floor).
     For another thing, the State Department's reason did not set forth any factual basis for the Government's decision.  Cf., e.g., Wilkinson, 545 U. S., at 225-226 (prison administrators must inform prisoners of "factual basis" for extreme solitary confinement).  Perhaps the Department denied the visa because Ms. Din's husband at one point was a payroll clerk for the Afghan Government when that government was controlled by the Taliban.  See ante, at 5 (opinion of Kennedy, J.).  But there is no way to know if that is so.
     The generality of the statutory provision cited and the lack of factual support mean that here, the reason given is analogous to telling a criminal defendant only that he is accused of "breaking the law"; telling a property owner only that he cannot build because environmental rules forbid it; or telling a driver only that police pulled him over because he violated traffic laws.  As such, the reason given cannot serve its procedural purpose.  It does not permit Ms. Din to assess the correctness of the State Department's conclusion; it does not permit her to determine what kinds of facts she might provide in response; and it does not permit her to learn whether, or what kind of, defenses might be available.  In short, any "reason" that Ms. Din received is not constitutionally adequate.
2
     Seemingly aware that he cannot deny these basic legal principles, Justice Kennedy rests his conclusions upon two considerations that, in his view, provide sufficient grounds for an exception.  Ante, at 5-6.  Most importantly, he says that ordinary rules of due process must give way here to national security concerns.  But just what are those concerns?  And how do they apply here?  Ms. Din's counsel stated at oral argument that there were no such concerns in this case.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 35.  And the Solicitor General did not deny that statement.
      In other cases, such concerns may exist.  But, when faced with the need to provide public information without compromising security interests, the Government has found ways to do so, for example, by excising sensitive portions of documents requested by the press, members of the public, or other public officials.  See, e.g., 5 U. S. C. §552(b)(1).  Moreover, agencies and courts have found ways to conduct proceedings in private, through internal review or in camera proceedings, and thereby protect sensitive information.  See Webster v. Doe, 486 U. S. 592, 604 (1988); Brief for Respondent 48-52, and n. 20; Brief for American Civil Liberties Union as Amicus Curiae 23-28.  Would these (or other) methods prove adequate in other cases where a citizen's freedom to live in America with her spouse is at issue?  Are they even necessary here?  The Government has not explained.
     I do not deny the importance of national security, the need to keep certain related information private, or the need to respect the determinations of the other branches of Government in such matters.  But protecting ordinary citizens from arbitrary government action is fundamental.  Thus, the presence of security considerations does not suspend the Constitution.  Hamdi, 542 U. S., at 527-537 (plurality opinion).  Rather, it requires us to take security needs into account when determining, for example, what "process" is "due."  Ibid.
     Yet how can we take proper account of security considerations without knowing what they are, without knowing how and why they require modification of traditional due process requirements, and without knowing whether other, less restrictive alternatives are available?  How exactly would it harm important security interests to give Ms. Din a better explanation?  Is there no way to give Ms. Din such an explanation while also maintaining appropriate secrecy?  I believe we need answers to these questions before we can accept as constitutional a major departure from the procedural requirements that the Due Process Clause ordinarily demands.
     Justice Kennedy also looks for support to the fact that Congress specifically exempted the section here at issue, §1182(a)(3)(B), from the statutory provision requiring the State Department to provide a reason for visa denials.  §1182(b)(3).  An exception from a statutory demand for a reason, however, is not a command to do the opposite; rather, at most, it leaves open the question whether other law requires a reason.  Here that other law is the Constitution, not a statute.  In my view, the Due Process Clause requires the Department to provide an adequate reason.  And, I believe it has failed to do so.
*  *  *
     For these reasons, with respect, I dissent.
APPENDIX
Title 8 U. S. C. § 1182(a)(3) provides:
     "(B) Terrorist activities
     "(i) In general
     "Any alien who--
     "(I) has engaged in a terrorist activity;
     "(II) a consular officer, the Attorney General, or the Secretary of Homeland Security knows, or has reasonable ground to believe, is engaged in or is likely to engage after entry in any terrorist activity (as defined in clause (iv));
     "(III) has, under circumstances indicating an intention to cause death or serious bodily harm, incited terrorist activity;
     "(IV) is a representative (as defined in clause (v)) of--
     "(aa) a terrorist organization (as defined in clause (vi)); or
     "(bb) a political, social, or other group that endorses or espouses terrorist activity;
     "(V) is a member of a terrorist organization described in subclause (I) or (II) of clause (vi);
     "(VI) is a member of a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(III), unless the alien can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the alien did not know, and should not reasonably have known, that the organization was a terrorist organization;
     "(VII) endorses or espouses terrorist activity or persuades others to endorse or espouse terrorist activity or support a terrorist organization;
     "(VIII) has received military-type training (as defined in section 2339D(c)(1) of title 18) from or on behalf of any organization that, at the time the training was received, was a terrorist organization (as defined in clause (vi)); or
     "(IX) is the spouse or child of an alien who is inadmissible under this subparagraph, if the activity causing the alien to be found inadmissible occurred within the last 5 years,
"is inadmissible. An alien who is an officer, official, representative, or spokesman of the Palestine Liberation Organization is considered, for purposes of this chapter, to be engaged in a terrorist activity.
     "(ii) Exception
     "Subclause (IX) of clause (i) does not apply to a spouse or child--
     "(I) who did not know or should not reasonably have known of the activity causing the alien to be found inadmissible under this section; or
     "(II) whom the consular officer or Attorney General has reasonable grounds to believe has renounced the activity causing the alien to be found inadmissible under this section.
     "(iii) 'Terrorist activity' defined
     "As used in this chapter, the term 'terrorist activity' means any activity which is unlawful under the laws of the place where it is committed (or which, if it had been committed in the United States, would be unlawful under the laws of the United States or any State) and which involves any of the following:
     "(I) The highjacking or sabotage of any conveyance (including an aircraft, vessel, or vehicle).
     "(II) The seizing or detaining, and threatening to kill, injure, or continue to detain, another individual in order to compel a third person (including a governmental organization) to do or abstain from doing any act as an explicit or implicit condition for the release of the individual seized or detained.
     "(III) A violent attack upon an internationally protected person (as defined in section 1116(b)(4) of title 18) or upon the liberty of such a person.
     "(IV) An assassination.
     "(V) The use of any--
     "(a) biological agent, chemical agent, or nuclear weapon or device, or
     "(b) explosive, firearm, or other weapon or dangerous device (other than for mere personal monetary gain),
"with intent to endanger, directly or indirectly, the safety of one or more individuals or to cause substantial damage to property.
     "(VI) A threat, attempt, or conspiracy to do any of the foregoing.
     "(iv) 'Engage in terrorist activity' defined
     "As used in this chapter, the term 'engage in terrorist activity' means, in an individual capacity or as a member of an organization--
     "(I) to commit or to incite to commit, under circumstances indicating an intention to cause death or serious bodily injury, a terrorist activity;
     "(II) to prepare or plan a terrorist activity;
     "(III) to gather information on potential targets for terrorist activity;
     "(IV) to solicit funds or other things of value for--
     "(aa) a terrorist activity;
     "(bb) a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(I) or (vi)(II); or
     "(cc) a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(III), unless the solicitor can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that he did not know, and should not reasonably have known, that the organization was a terrorist organization;
     "(V) to solicit any individual--
     "(aa) to engage in conduct otherwise described in this subsection;
     "(bb) for membership in a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(I) or (vi)(II); or
     "(cc) for membership in a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(III) unless the solicitor can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that he did not know, and should not reasonably have known, that the organization was a terrorist organization; or
     "(VI) to commit an act that the actor knows, or reasonably should know, affords material support, including a safe house, transportation, communications, funds, transfer of funds or other material financial benefit, false documentation or identification, weapons (including chemical, biological, or radiological weapons), explosives, or training--
     "(aa) for the commission of a terrorist activity;
     "(bb) to any individual who the actor knows, or reasonably should know, has committed or plans to commit a terrorist activity;
     "(cc) to a terrorist organization described in subclause (I) or (II) of clause (vi) or to any member of such an organization; or
     "(dd) to a terrorist organization described in clause (vi)(III), or to any member of such an organization, unless the actor can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the actor did not know, and should not reasonably have known, that the organization was a terrorist organization.
     "(v) 'Representative' defined
     "As used in this paragraph, the term 'representative' includes an officer, official, or spokesman of an organization, and any person who directs, counsels, commands, or induces an organization or its members to engage in terrorist activity.
     "(vi) 'Terrorist organization' defined
     "As used in this section, the term 'terrorist organization' means an organization--
     "(I) designated under section 1189 of this title;
     "(II) otherwise designated, upon publication in the Federal Register, by the Secretary of State in consultation with or upon the request of the Attorney General or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as a terrorist organization, after finding that the organization engages in the activities described in subclauses (I) through (VI) of clause (iv); or
     "(III) that is a group of two or more individuals, whether organized or not, which engages in, or has a subgroup which engages in, the activities described in subclauses (I) through (VI) of clause (iv)."

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1* Justice Breyer characterizes this as a reintroduction of "the rights/privilege distinction that this Court rejected almost five decades ago."  Post, at 3.  Not so.  All I insist upon (and all that our cases over the past five decades require) is that the privilege be one to which the claimant has been given an entitlement.





United States Supreme Court
REYES MATA v. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2015)
No. 14-185
Argued: April 29, 2015    Decided: June 15, 2015


After petitioner Noel Reyes Mata, an unlawful resident alien, was convicted of assault in a Texas court, an Immigration Judge ordered him removed to Mexico.  Mata's attorney filed a notice of appeal with the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board), but never filed a brief, and the appeal was dismissed.  Acting through different counsel,  Mata filed a motion to reopen his removal proceedings, as authorized by statute.  See 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7)(A).  Acknowledging that he had  missed the 90-day deadline for such motions, see §1229a(c)(7)(C)(i), Mata argued that his previous counsel's ineffective assistance was an exceptional circumstance entitling him to equitable tolling of the time limit.  But the BIA disagreed and dismissed the motion as untimely.  The BIA also declined to reopen Mata's removal proceedings sua sponte based on its separate regulatory authority.  See 8 CFR §1003.2(a).  On appeal, the Fifth Circuit construed Mata's equitable tolling claim as an invitation for the Board to exercise its regulatory authority to reopen the proceedings sua sponte, and--because circuit precedent forbids the court to review BIA decisions not to exercise that authority--dismissed Mata's appeal for lack of jurisdiction.
Held: The Fifth Circuit erred in declining to take jurisdiction over  Mata's appeal.  A court of appeals has jurisdiction to review the BIA's rejection of an alien's motion to reopen.  Kucana v. Holder, 558 U. S. 233, 253.  Nothing about that jurisdiction changes where the Board rejects a motion as untimely, or when it rejects a motion requesting equitable tolling of the time limit.  That jurisdiction likewise remains unchanged if the BIA's denial also contains a separate decision not to exercise its sua sponte authority.  So even assuming the Fifth Circuit is correct that courts of appeals lack jurisdiction to review BIA decisions not to reopen cases sua sponte, that lack of jurisdiction does not affect jurisdiction over the decision on the alien's motion to reopen.  It thus follows that the Fifth Circuit had jurisdiction over this case.
     The Fifth Circuit's contrary decision rested on its construing  Mata's motion as an invitation for the Board to exercise its sua sponte discretion.  Court-appointed amicus asserts that the Fifth Circuit's recharacterization was based on the premise that equitable tolling in Mata's situation is categorically forbidden.  In amicus's view, the court's construal was therefore an example of the ordinary practice of recharacterizing a doomed request as one for relief that may be available.  But even if equitable tolling is prohibited, the Fifth Circuit's action was not justified.  If Mata is not entitled to relief on the merits, then the correct disposition is to take jurisdiction and affirm the BIA's denial of his motion.  For a court retains jurisdiction even if a litigant's request for relief lacks merit, see Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 89, and a federal court has a "virtually unflagging obligation," Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 817, to assert jurisdiction where it has that authority.  Nor can the established practice of recharacterizing pleadings so as to offer the possibility of relief justify an approach that, as here, renders relief impossible and sidesteps the judicial obligation to assert jurisdiction.  Pp. 4-8.
558 Fed. Appx. 366, reversed and remanded.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion.

Opinion of the Court
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 14-185
NOEL REYES MATA, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E.LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[June 15, 2015]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     An alien ordered to leave the country has a statutory right to file a motion to reopen his removal proceedings.  See 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7)(A).  If immigration officials deny that motion, a federal court of appeals has jurisdiction to consider a petition to review their decision.  See Kucana v. Holder, 558 U. S. 233, 242, 253 (2010).  Notwithstanding that rule, the court below declined to take jurisdiction over such an appeal because the motion to reopen had been denied as untimely.  We hold that was error.
I
     The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, as amended, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., and its implementing regulations set out the process for removing aliens from the country.  An immigration judge (IJ) conducts the initial proceedings; if he orders removal, the alien has the opportunity to appeal that decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board).  §§1229a(a)(1), (c)(5).  "[E]very alien ordered removed" also 
"has a right to file one motion" with the IJ or Board to "reopen his or her removal proceedings."  Dada v. Mukasey, 554 U. S. 1, 4-5 (2008); see §1229a(c)(7)(A).  Subject to exceptions not relevant here, that motion to reopen "shall be filed within 90 days" of the final removal order.  §1229a(c)(7)(C)(i).  Finally, the BIA's regulations provide that, separate and apart from acting on the alien's motion, the BIA may reopen removal proceedings "on its own motion"--or, in Latin, sua sponte--at any time.  8 CFR §1003.2(a) (2015).
     Petitioner Noel Reyes Mata is a Mexican citizen who entered the United States unlawfully almost 15 years ago.  In 2010, he was convicted of assault under the Texas Penal Code.  The federal Department of Homeland Security (DHS) immediately initiated removal proceedings against him, and in August 2011 an IJ ordered him removed.  See App. 6-13.  Mata's lawyer then filed a notice of appeal with the BIA, indicating that he would soon submit a written brief stating grounds for reversing the IJ's decision.  But the attorney never filed the brief, and the BIA dismissed the appeal in September 2012.  See App. 4-5.
     More than a hundred days later, Mata (by then represented by new counsel) filed a motion with the Board to reopen his case.  DHS opposed the motion, arguing in part that Mata had failed to file it, as the INA requires, within 90 days of the Board's decision.  Mata responded that the motion was "not time barred" because his first lawyer's "ineffective assistance" counted as an "exceptional circumstance[ ]" excusing his lateness.  Certified Administrative Record in No. 13-60253 (CA5, Aug. 2, 2013), p. 69.  In addressing those arguments, the Board reaffirmed prior decisions holding that it had authority to equitably toll the 90-day period in certain cases involving ineffective representation.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 7; see also, e.g., In re Santa Celenia Diaz, 2009 WL 2981747 (BIA, Aug. 21, 2009).  But the Board went on to determine that Mata was not entitled to equitable tolling because he could not show prejudice from his attorney's deficient performance; accordingly, the Board found Mata's motion untimely.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 7-8.  And in closing, the Board decided as well that Mata's case was not one "that would warrant reopening as an exercise of" its sua sponte authority.  Id., at 9 (stating that "the power to reopen on our own motion is not meant to be used as a general cure for filing defects" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
     Mata petitioned the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit to review the BIA's denial of his motion to reopen, arguing that he was entitled to equitable tolling.  The Fifth Circuit, however, declined to "address the merits of Mata's equitable-tolling . . . claim[ ]."  Reyes Mata v. Holder, 558 Fed. Appx. 366, 367 (2014) (per curiam).  It stated instead that "[i]n this circuit, an alien's request [to the BIA] for equitable tolling on the basis of ineffective assistance of counsel is construed as an invitation for the BIA to exercise its discretion to reopen the removal proceeding sua sponte."  Ibid.  And circuit precedent held that courts have no jurisdiction to review the BIA's refusal to exercise its sua sponte power to reopen cases.  See ibid.  The Court of Appeals thus dismissed Mata's appeal for lack of jurisdiction.
     Every other Circuit that reviews removal orders has affirmed its jurisdiction to decide an appeal, like Mata's, that seeks equitable tolling of the statutory time limit to file a motion to reopen a removal proceeding.1  We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict.  574 U. S. ___ (2015).  And because the Federal Government agrees with Mata that the Fifth Circuit had jurisdiction over his appeal, we appointed an amicus curiae to defend the judgment below.2  We now reverse.
II
     As we held in Kucana v. Holder, circuit courts have jurisdiction when an alien appeals from the Board's denial of a motion to reopen a removal proceeding.  See 558 U. S., at 242, 253.  The INA, in combination with a statute cross-referenced there, gives the courts of appeals jurisdiction to review "final order[s] of removal."  8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(1); 28 U. S. C. §2342.  That jurisdiction, as the INA expressly contemplates, encompasses review of decisions refusing to reopen or reconsider such orders.  See 8 U. S. C. §1252(b)(6) ("[A]ny review sought of a motion to reopen or reconsider [a removal order] shall be consolidated with the review of the [underlying] order").  Indeed, as we explained in Kucana, courts have reviewed those decisions for nearly a hundred years; and even as Congress curtailed other aspects of courts' jurisdiction over BIA rulings, it left that authority in place.  See 558 U. S., at 242-251.
     Nothing changes when the Board denies a motion to reopen because it is untimely--nor when, in doing so, the Board rejects a request for equitable tolling.  Under the INA, as under our century-old practice, the reason for the BIA's denial makes no difference to the jurisdictional issue.  Whether the BIA rejects the alien's motion to reopen because it comes too late or because it falls short in some other respect, the courts have jurisdiction to review that decision.
     Similarly, that jurisdiction remains unchanged if the Board, in addition to denying the alien's statutorily authorized motion, states that it will not exercise its separate sua sponte authority to reopen the case.  See supra, at 1-2.  In Kucana, we declined to decide whether courts have jurisdiction to review the BIA's use of that discretionary power.  See 558 U. S., at 251, n. 18.  Courts of Appeals, including the Fifth Circuit, have held that they generally lack such authority.  See, e.g., Enriquez-Alvarado v. Ashcroft, 371 F. 3d 246, 249-250 (CA5 2004); Tamenut v. Mukasey, 521 F. 3d 1000, 1003-1004 (CA8 2008) (en banc) (per curiam) (citing other decisions).  Assuming arguendo that is right, it means only that judicial review ends after the court has evaluated the Board's ruling on the alien's motion.  That courts lack jurisdiction over one matter (the sua sponte decision) does not affect their jurisdiction over another (the decision on the alien's request).
     It follows, as the night the day, that the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction over this case.  Recall: As authorized by the INA, Mata filed a motion with the Board to reopen his removal proceeding.  The Board declined to grant Mata his proposed relief, thus conferring jurisdiction on an appellate court under Kucana.  The Board did so for timeliness reasons, holding that Mata had filed his motion after 90 days had elapsed and that he was not entitled to equitable tolling.  But as just explained, the reason the Board gave makes no difference: Whenever the Board denies an alien's statutory motion to reopen a removal case, courts have jurisdiction to review its decision.  In addition, the Board determined not to exercise its sua sponte authority to reopen.  But once again, that extra ruling does not matter.  The Court of Appeals did not lose jurisdiction over the Board's denial of Mata's motion just because the Board also declined to reopen his case sua sponte.
     Nonetheless, the Fifth Circuit dismissed Mata's appeal for lack of jurisdiction.  That decision, as described earlier, hinged on "constru[ing]" Mata's motion as something it was not: "an invitation for the BIA to exercise" its sua sponte authority.  558 Fed. Appx., at 367; supra, at 3.  Amicus's defense of that approach centrally relies on a merits-based premise: that the INA forbids equitable tolling of the 90-day filing period in any case, no matter how exceptional the circumstances.  See Brief for Amicus Curiae by Invitation of the Court 14-35.  Given that is so, amicus continues, the court acted permissibly in "recharacteriz[ing]" Mata's pleadings.  Id., at 36.  After all, courts often treat a request for "categorically unavailable" relief as instead "seeking relief [that] may be available."  Id., at 35, 38.  And here (amicus concludes) that meant construing Mata's request for equitable tolling as a request for sua sponte reopening--even though that caused the Fifth Circuit to lose its jurisdiction.
     But that conclusion is wrong even on the assumption--and it is only an assumption--that its core premise about equitable tolling is true.3  If the INA precludes Mata from getting the relief he seeks, then the right course on appeal is to take jurisdiction over the case, explain why that is so, and affirm the BIA's decision not to reopen.  The jurisdictional question (whether the court has power to decide if tolling is proper) is of course distinct from the merits question (whether tolling is proper).  See Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 89 (1998) ("[T]he absence of a valid . . . cause of action does not implicate subject-matter jurisdiction").  The Fifth Circuit thus retains jurisdiction even if Mata's appeal lacks merit.  And when a federal court has jurisdiction, it also has a "virtually unflagging obligation . . . to exercise" that authority.  Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 817 (1976).  Accordingly, the Court of Appeals should have asserted jurisdiction over Mata's appeal and addressed the equitable tolling question.
     Contrary to amicus's view, the practice of recharacterizing pleadings so as to offer the possibility of relief cannot justify the Court of Appeals' alternative approach.  True enough (and a good thing too) that courts sometimes construe one kind of filing as another: If a litigant misbrands a motion, but could get relief under a different label, a court will often make the requisite change.  See, e.g., 12 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice, §59.11[4] (3 ed. 2015) (explaining how courts treat untimely Rule 59 motions as Rule 60 motions because the latter have no time limit).  But that established practice does not entail sidestepping the judicial obligation to exercise jurisdiction.  And it results in identifying a route to relief, not in rendering relief impossible.  That makes all the difference between a court's generously reading pleadings and a court's construing away adjudicative authority.
     And if, as amicus argues, that construal rests on an underlying merits decision--that the INA precludes any equitable tolling--then the Court of Appeals has effectively insulated a circuit split from our review.  Putting the Fifth Circuit to the side, all appellate courts to have addressed the matter have held that the Board may sometimes equitably toll the time limit for an alien's motion to reopen.  See n. 1, supra.  Assuming the Fifth Circuit thinks otherwise, that creates the kind of split of authority we typically think we need to resolve.  See this Court's Rule 10(a). But the Fifth Circuit's practice of recharacterizing appeals like Mata's as challenges to the Board's sua sponte decisions and then declining to exercise jurisdiction over them prevents that split from coming to light.  Of course, the Court of Appeals may reach whatever conclusion it thinks best as to the availability of equitable tolling; we express no opinion on that matter.  See n. 3, supra.  What the Fifth Circuit may not do is to wrap such a merits decision in jurisdictional garb so that we cannot address a possible division between that court and every other.
     For the foregoing reasons, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Thomas, J., dissenting
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 14-185
NOEL REYES MATA, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[June 15, 2015]

     Justice Thomas, dissenting.
     The Court's opinion in this case elides an important distinction between construing a court filing and recharacterizing it.  See Castro v. United States, 540 U. S. 375, 386 (2003) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing this distinction).  Courts routinely construe ambiguous filings to make sense out of them, as parties--both counseled and uncounseled--sometimes submit documents lacking even rudimentary clarity.  See, e.g., Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama, 989 F. Supp. 2d 1227, 1287 (MD Ala. 2013) ("The filings and arguments made by the plaintiffs on these claims were mystifying at best").  Recharacterization is something very different: It occurs when a court treats an unambiguous filing as something it is not.  That practice is an unusual one, and should be used, if at all, with caution.  See Castro, 540 U. S., at 385-386 (opinion of Scalia, J.).  Courts should not approach recharacterization with a freewheeling attitude, but with "regard to the exceptional nature of recharacterization within an adversarial system."  Ibid.  Recharacterization has, for example, been used "deliberately to override a pro se litigant's choice of a procedural vehicle."  Id., at 386 (disapproving of the practice).  But it is not the role of courts to "create a 'better correspondence' between the substance of a claim and its underlying procedural basis."  Ibid.
     In my view, then, it makes all the difference whether the Court of Appeals here properly construed an ambiguous motion or recharacterized an unambiguous motion contrary to Mata's stated choice of procedural vehicle.  Although the majority's opinion does not address this point, Mata's motion to reopen does not expressly state whether he was invoking statutory relief under 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7)(A) or instead requesting sua sponte reopening under the Board of Immigration Appeals' asserted inherent authority.  Had the Court of Appeals engaged in the discretionary action of construing that ambiguous filing, it might not have abused its discretion by concluding that Mata really meant to ask for sua sponte reopening rather than equitable tolling of the statutory time bar.
     The Court of Appeals, however, did not purport to construe an ambiguous motion.  Instead, it applied what appears to be a categorical rule that all motions to reopen that would be untimely under §1229a(c)(7)(A) must be construed as motions for sua sponte reopening of the proceedings.  See 558 Fed. Appx. 366, 367 (CA5 2014) (per curiam) ("In this circuit, an alien's request for equitable tolling on the basis of ineffective assistance of counsel is construed as an invitation for the BIA to exercise its discretion to reopen the removal proceeding sua sponte").  That rule would appear to foreclose a litigant from ever filing an untimely statutory motion to reopen removal proceedings seeking equitable tolling, as well as to invite improper recharacterization in the event any such a motion is filed.  The Court of Appeals should have assessed Mata's motion on its own terms.  It erred in not doing so.
     The reason it erred, though, has nothing to do with its fidelity to our precedents discussing "the judicial obligation to exercise jurisdiction," ante, at 7.  That obligation does not allow evasion of constitutional and statutory jurisdictional prerequisites.  It is true that "when a federal court has jurisdiction, it also has a 'virtually unflagging obligation to . . . exercise' that authority."  Ibid. (quoting Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 817 (1976)).  But that "unflagging obligation" arises only if a court actually has jurisdiction.  Federal courts have no obligation to seek out jurisdiction, nor should they misconstrue filings to satisfy jurisdictional requirements.  Rather, federal courts should "presume that [they] lack jurisdiction unless the contrary appears affirmatively from the record."  See DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 342, n. 3 (2006).  And they should apply the ordinary rule that the party asserting federal jurisdiction bears the burden of proving that jurisdictional prerequisites are met.  Ibid.  The practice of construing filings does not alter the usual rules of establishing jurisdiction in federal court.
     I would vacate and remand for the Court of Appeals to consider the BIA's judgment without the burden of what appears to be a categorical rule demanding that Mata's motion be construed (or recharacterized) as a request for sua sponte reopening.  Because the majority does more than this by reversing the judgment below, I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 See, e.g., Da Silva Neves v. Holder, 613 F. 3d 30, 33 (CA1 2010) (per curiam) (exercising jurisdiction over such a petition); Iavorski v. INS, 232 F. 3d 124, 129-134 (CA2 2000) (same); Borges v. Gonzales, 402 F. 3d 398, 406 (CA3 2005) (same); Kuusk v. Holder, 732 F. 3d 302, 305-306 (CA4 2013) (same); Barry v. Mukasey, 524 F. 3d 721, 724-725 (CA6 2008) (same); Pervaiz v. Gonzales, 405 F. 3d 488, 490 (CA7 2005) (same); Hernandez-Moran v. Gonzales, 408 F. 3d 496, 499-500 (CA8 2005) (same); Valeriano v. Gonzales, 474 F. 3d 669, 673 (CA9 2007) (same); Riley v. INS, 310 F. 3d 1253, 1257-1258 (CA10 2002) (same); Avila-Santoyo v. United States Atty. Gen., 713 F. 3d 1357, 1359, 1362-1364 (CA11 2013) (per curiam) (same).  Except for Da Silva Neves, which did not resolve the issue, all those decisions also held, on the merits, that the INA allows equitable tolling in certain circumstances.  See infra, at 7-8.
Footnote 2 We appointed William R. Peterson to brief and argue the case, 574 U. S. ___ (2015), and he has ably discharged his responsibilities.
Footnote 3 We express no opinion as to whether or when the INA allows the Board to equitably toll the 90-day period to file a motion to reopen.  Moreover, we are not certain what the Fifth Circuit itself thinks about that question.  Perhaps, as amicus asserts, the court believes the INA categorically precludes equitable tolling: It is hard to come up with any other reason why the court construes every argument for tolling as one for sua sponte relief.  See Brief for Amicus Curiae by Invitation of the Court 2, 10, 14, n. 2.  But the Fifth Circuit has stated that position in only a single sentence in a single unpublished opinion, which (according to the Circuit) has no precedential force.  See Lin v. Mukasey, 286 Fed. Appx. 148, 150 (2008) (per curiam); Rule 47.5.4 (2015).  And another unpublished decision cuts in the opposite direction, "hold[ing] that the doctrine of equitable tolling applies" when exceptional circumstances excuse an alien's failure to meet the 90-day reopening deadline.  See Torabi v. Gonzales, 165 Fed. Appx. 326, 331 (CA5 2006) (per curiam).  So, in the end, it is hard to say.





United States Supreme Court
ZIVOTOFSKY, BY HIS PARENTS AND GUARDIANS, ZIVOTOFSKY ET UX. v. KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE, (2015)
No. 13-628
Argued: November 3, 2014    Decided: June 8, 2015


Petitioner Zivotofsky was born to United States citizens living in Jerusalem.  Pursuant to §214(d) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, his mother asked American Embassy officials to list his place of birth as "Israel" on, inter alia, his passport.  Section 214(d) states for "purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel."  The Embassy officials refused to list Zivotofsky's place of birth as "Israel" on his passport, citing the Executive Branch's longstanding position that the United States does not recognize any country as having sovereignty over Jerusalem.  Zivotofsky's parents brought suit on his behalf in federal court, seeking to enforce §214(d).  Ultimately, the D. C. Circuit held the statute unconstitutional, concluding that it contradicts the Executive Branch's exclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns.
Held: 
     1. The President has the exclusive power to grant formal recognition to a foreign sovereign.  Pp. 6-26.
          (a) Where, as here, the President's action is "incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress," the President "can rely [for his authority] only upon his own constitutional powers minus any constitutional powers of Congress over the matter," Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 637 (Jackson, J., concurring).  His asserted power must be both "exclusive" and "conclusive" on the issue, id., at 637-638, and he may rely solely on powers the Constitution grants to him alone, id., at 638.  To determine whether the President's power of recognition is exclusive, this Court examines the Constitution's text and structure and relevant precedent and history.  Pp. 6-7.
          (b) The Constitution's text and structure grant the President the power to recognize foreign nations and governments.  The Reception Clause directs that the President "shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers," Art. II, §3.  And at the time of the founding, receiving an ambassador was considered tantamount to recognizing the sending state's sovereignty.  It is thus logical and proper to infer that the Reception Clause would be understood to acknowledge the President's power to recognize other nations.  This inference is further supported by the President's additional Article II powers: to negotiate treaties and to nominate the Nation's ambassadors and dispatch other diplomatic agents.  Though ratifying a treaty and confirming an ambassador require congressional approval, Congress lacks authority to initiate the actions without the President's involvement.  The President, unlike Congress, also has the power to open diplomatic channels simply by engaging in direct diplomacy with foreign heads of state and their ministers.  The Constitution thus assigns the President, not Congress, means to effect recognition on his own initiative. 
     Functional considerations also suggest that the President's recognition power is exclusive.  The Nation must "speak . . . with one voice" regarding which governments are legitimate in the eyes of the United States and which are not, American Insurance Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 424, and only the Executive has the characteristic of unity at all times.  Unlike Congress, the President is also capable of engaging in the delicate and often secret diplomatic contacts that may lead to a recognition decision, see, e.g., United States v. Pink, 315 U. S. 203, 229, and is better positioned to take the decisive, unequivocal action necessary to recognize other states at international law.  The President has also exercised unilateral recognition power since the founding, a practice endorsed by this Court, see, e.g., Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino, 376 U. S. 398, 410.
     Under basic separation-of-powers principles, Congress, which has the central role in making laws, see Art. I, §8, cl. 18, does have substantial authority regarding many policy determinations that precede and follow an act of recognition.  The President's recognition determination is thus only one part of a political process.  Pp. 7-14.
          (b) A fair reading of relevant precedent illustrates that this Court has long considered recognition to be the exclusive prerogative of the Executive.  See, e.g., Williams v. Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420; United States v. Belmont, 301 U. S. 324, 330; United States v. Pink, supra, at 229; Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino, supra, at 410; National City Bank of N. Y. v. Republic of China, 348 U. S. 356, 358.  United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 320, does not support a broader definition of the Executive's power over foreign relations that would permit the President alone to determine the whole content of the Nation's foreign policy.  The Executive is not free from the ordinary controls and checks of Congress merely because foreign affairs are at issue.  See, e.g., Medellín v. Texas, 552 U. S. 491, 523-532.  Nonetheless, it is for the President alone to make the specific decision of what foreign power he will recognize as legitimate, and his position must be clear.  Pp. 14-20.
          (c) The weight of historical evidence also indicates Congress has accepted that the recognition power is exclusive to the Presidency.  Cf. NLRB v. Noel Canning, 573 U. S. ___.  Since the first Administration, the President has claimed unilateral authority to recognize foreign sovereigns.  And Congress, for the most part, has acquiesced, generally respecting the Executive's policies and positions on formal recognition and even defending the President's constitutional prerogative.  Pp. 20-26. 
     2. Because the power to recognize foreign states resides in the President alone, §214(d) infringes on the Executive's consistent decision to withhold recognition with respect to Jerusalem.  See Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433 U. S. 425, 443.  The provision forces the President, through the Secretary of State, to identify, upon request, citizens born in Jerusalem as being born in Israel when, as a matter of United States policy, neither Israel nor any other country is acknowledged as having sovereignty over Jerusalem.  
     If the recognition power is to mean anything, it must mean that the President not only makes the initial, formal recognition determination but also may maintain that determination in his and his agent's statements.  Under international law, recognition may be effected by written or oral declaration.  In addition, an act of recognition must leave no doubt as to the intention to grant it.  Thus, if Congress could alter the President's statements on matters of recognition or force him to contradict them, Congress in effect would exercise the recognition power.  An "exclusive" Presidential power "disabl[es] the Congress from acting upon the subject."  Youngstown, supra, at 638 (Jackson, J., concurring).  If Congress may not pass a law, speaking in its own voice, effecting formal recognition, then it may not force the President, through §214(d), to contradict his prior recognition determination in an official document issued by the Secretary of State.  See Urtetiqui v. D'Arcy, 9 Pet. 692, 698.  
     Section 214(d)'s flaw is further underscored by the fact that the statute's purpose was to infringe on the President's exclusive recognition power.  While Congress may have power to enact passport legislation of wide scope, it may not "aggrandiz[e] its power at the expense of another branch" by requiring the President to contradict an earlier recognition determination in an official Executive Branch document.  Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U. S. 868, 878.  Pp. 26-29. 
725 F. 3d 197, affirmed.
     Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Breyer, J., filed a concurring opinion.  Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.  Roberts, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Alito, J., joined.  Scalia, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Roberts, C. J., and Alito, J., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 13-628
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. JOHN KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[June 8, 2015]

     Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
     A delicate subject lies in the background of this case.  That subject is Jerusalem.  Questions touching upon the history of the ancient city and its present legal and international status are among the most difficult and complex in international affairs.  In our constitutional system these matters are committed to the Legislature and the Executive, not the Judiciary.  As a result, in this opinion the Court does no more, and must do no more, than note the existence of international debate and tensions respecting Jerusalem.  Those matters are for Congress and the President to discuss and consider as they seek to shape the Nation's foreign policies.
     The Court addresses two questions to resolve the interbranch dispute now before it.  First, it must determine whether the President has the exclusive power to grant formal recognition to a foreign sovereign.  Second, if he has that power, the Court must determine whether Congress can command the President and his Secretary of State to issue a formal statement that contradicts the earlier recognition.  The statement in question here is a congressional mandate that allows a United States citizen born in Jerusalem to direct the President and Secretary of State, when issuing his passport, to state that his place of birth is "Israel."
I
A
     Jerusalem's political standing has long been, and remains, one of the most sensitive issues in American foreign policy, and indeed it is one of the most delicate issues in current international affairs.  In 1948, President Truman formally recognized Israel in a signed statement of "recognition."  See Statement by the President Announcing Recognition of the State of Israel, Public Papers of the Presidents, May 14, 1948, p. 258 (1964).  That statement did not recognize Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem.  Over the last 60 years, various actors have sought to assert full or partial sovereignty over the city, including Israel, Jordan, and the Palestinians.  Yet, in contrast to a consistent policy of formal recognition of Israel, neither President Truman nor any later United States President has issued an official statement or declaration acknowledging any country's sovereignty over Jerusalem.  Instead, the Executive Branch has maintained that " 'the status of Jerusalem . . . should be decided not unilaterally but in consultation with all concerned.' "  United Nations Gen. Assembly Official Records, 5th Emergency Sess., 1554th Plenary Meetings, United Nations Doc. No. 1 A&TLRvirgul;PV.1554, p. 10 (July 14, 1967); see, e.g., Remarks by President Obama in Address to the United Nations Gen. Assembly (Sept. 21, 2011), 2011 Daily Comp. of Pres. Doc. No. 00661, p. 4 ("Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians, not us, who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them," including "Jerusalem").  In a letter to Congress then-Secretary of State Warren Christopher expressed the Executive's concern that "[t]here is no issue related to the Arab-Israeli negotiations that is more sensitive than Jerusalem."  See 141 Cong. Rec. 28967 (1995) (letter to Robert Dole, Majority Leader, (June 20, 1995)).  He further noted the Executive's opinion that "any effort . . . to bring it to the forefront" could be "very damaging to the success of the peace process."  Ibid.
     The President's position on Jerusalem is reflected in State Department policy regarding passports and consular reports of birth abroad.  Understanding that passports will be construed as reflections of American policy, the State Department's Foreign Affairs Manual instructs its employees, in general, to record the place of birth on a passport as the "country [having] present sovereignty over the actual area of birth."  Dept. of State, 7 Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM) §1383.4 (1987).  If a citizen objects to the country listed as sovereign by the State Department, he or she may list the city or town of birth rather than the country.  See id., §1383.6.  The FAM, however, does not allow citizens to list a sovereign that conflicts with Executive Branch policy.  See generally id., §1383.  Because the United States does not recognize any country as having sovereignty over Jerusalem, the FAM instructs employees to record the place of birth for citizens born there as "Jerusalem."  Id., §1383.5-6 (emphasis deleted).
     In 2002, Congress passed the Act at issue here, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, 116 Stat. 1350.  Section 214 of the Act is titled "United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel."  Id., at 1365.  The subsection that lies at the heart of this case, §214(d), addresses passports.  That subsection seeks to override the FAM by allowing citizens born in Jerusalem to list their place of birth as "Israel."  Titled "Record of Place of Birth as Israel for Passport Purposes," §214(d) states "[f ]or purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel."  Id., at 1366.
     When he signed the Act into law, President George W. Bush issued a statement declaring his position that §214 would, "if construed as mandatory rather than advisory, impermissibly interfere with the President's constitutional authority to formulate the position of the United States, speak for the Nation in international affairs, and determine the terms on which recognition is given to foreign states."  Statement on Signing the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, Public Papers of the Presidents, George W. Bush, Vol. 2, Sept. 30, 2002, p. 1698 (2005).  The President concluded, "U. S. policy regarding Jerusalem has not changed."  Ibid.
     Some parties were not reassured by the President's statement.  A cable from the United States Consulate in Jerusalem noted that the Palestine Liberation Organization Executive Committee, Fatah Central Committee, and the Palestinian Authority Cabinet had all issued statements claiming that the Act " 'undermines the role of the U. S. as a sponsor of the peace process.' "  App. 231.  In the Gaza Strip and elsewhere residents marched in protest.  See The Associated Press and Reuters, Palestinians Stone Police Guarding Western Wall, The Seattle Times, Oct. 5, 2002, p. A7.
     In response the Secretary of State advised diplomats to express their understanding of "Jerusalem's importance to both sides and to many others around the world."  App. 228.  He noted his belief that America's "policy towards Jerusalem" had not changed.  Ibid.
B
     In 2002, petitioner Menachem Binyamin Zivotofsky was born to United States citizens living in Jerusalem.  App. 24-25.  In December 2002, Zivotofsky's mother visited the American Embassy in Tel Aviv to request both a passport and a consular report of birth abroad for her son.  Id., at 25.  She asked that his place of birth be listed as " 'Jerusalem, Israel.' "  Ibid.  The Embassy clerks explained that, pursuant to State Department policy, the passport would list only "Jerusalem."  Ibid.  Zivotofsky's parents objected and, as his guardians, brought suit on his behalf in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking to enforce §214(d).
     Pursuant to §214(d), Zivotofsky claims the right to have "Israel" recorded as his place of birth in his passport.  See Zivotofsky v. Clinton, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4) ("[W]hile Zivotofsky had originally asked that 'Jerusalem, Israel' be recorded on his passport, '[b]oth sides agree that the question now is whether §214(d) entitles [him] to have just 'Israel' listed' ").  The arguments in Zivotofsky's brief center on his passport claim, as opposed to the consular report of birth abroad.  Indeed, in the court below, Zivotofsky waived any argument that his consular report of birth abroad should be treated differently than his passport.  Zivotofsky v. Secretary of State, 725 F. 3d 197, 203, n. 3 (CADC 2013).  He has also waived the issue here by failing to differentiate between the two documents.  As a result, the Court addresses Zivotofsky's passport arguments and need not engage in a separate analysis of the validity of §214(d) as applied to consular reports of birth abroad.
     After Zivotofsky brought suit, the District Court dismissed his case, reasoning that it presented a nonjusticiable political question and that Zivotofsky lacked standing.  App. 28-39.  The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed on the standing issue, Zivotofsky v. Secretary of State, 444 F. 3d 614, 617-619 (2006), but later affirmed the District Court's political question determination.  See Zivotofsky v. Secretary of State, 571 F. 3d 1227, 1228 (2009).
     This Court granted certiorari, vacated the judgment, and remanded the case.  Whether §214(d) is constitutional, the Court held, is not a question reserved for the political branches.  In reference to Zivotofsky's claim the Court observed "the Judiciary must decide if Zivotofsky's interpretation of the statute is correct, and whether the statute is constitutional"--not whether Jerusalem is, in fact, part of Israel.  Zivotofsky v. Clinton, supra, at___ (slip op., at 7).
     On remand the Court of Appeals held the statute unconstitutional.  It determined that "the President exclusively holds the power to determine whether to recognize a foreign sovereign," 725 F. 3d, at 214, and that "section 214(d) directly contradicts a carefully considered exercise of the Executive branch's recognition power."  Id., at 217.  
     This Court again granted certiorari.  572 U. S. ___ (2014).
II
     In considering claims of Presidential power this Court refers to Justice Jackson's familiar tripartite framework from Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 635-638 (1952) (concurring opinion).  The framework divides exercises of Presidential power into three categories: First, when "the President acts pursuant to an express or implied authorization of Congress, his authority is at its maximum, for it includes all that he possesses in his own right plus all that Congress can delegate."  Id., at 635.  Second, "in absence of either a congressional grant or denial of authority" there is a "zone of twilight in which he and Congress may have concurrent authority," and where "congressional inertia, indifference or quiescence may" invite the exercise of executive power.  Id., at 637.  Finally, when "the President takes measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress . . . he can rely only upon his own constitutional powers minus any constitutional powers of Congress over the matter."  Ibid.  To succeed in this third category, the President's asserted power must be both "exclusive" and "conclusive" on the issue.  Id., at 637-638.
     In this case the Secretary contends that §214(d) infringes on the President's exclusive recognition power by "requiring the President to contradict his recognition position regarding Jerusalem in official communications with foreign sovereigns."  Brief for Respondent 48.  In so doing the Secretary acknowledges the President's power is "at its lowest ebb."  Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 637.  Because the President's refusal to implement §214(d) falls into Justice Jackson's third category, his claim must be "scrutinized with caution," and he may rely solely on powers the Constitution grants to him alone.  Id., at 638.
     To determine whether the President possesses the exclusive power of recognition the Court examines the Constitution's text and structure, as well as precedent and history bearing on the question.
A
     Recognition is a "formal acknowledgement" that a particular "entity possesses the qualifications for statehood" or "that a particular regime is the effective government of a state."  Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States §203, Comment a, p. 84 (1986).  It may also involve the determination of a state's territorial bounds.  See 2 M. Whiteman, Digest of International Law §1, p. 1 (1963) (Whiteman) ("[S]tates may recognize or decline to recognize territory as belonging to, or under the sovereignty of, or having been acquired or lost by, other states").  Recognition is often effected by an express "written or oral declaration."  1 J. Moore, Digest of International Law §27, p. 73 (1906) (Moore).  It may also be implied-for example, by concluding a bilateral treaty or by sending or receiving diplomatic agents.  Ibid.; I. Brownlie, Principles of Public International Law 93 (7th ed. 2008) (Brownlie).
     Legal consequences follow formal recognition.  Recognized sovereigns may sue in United States courts, see Guaranty Trust Co. v. United States, 304 U. S. 126, 137 (1938), and may benefit from sovereign immunity when they are sued, see National City Bank of N. Y. v. Republic of China, 348 U. S. 356, 358-359 (1955).  The actions of a recognized sovereign committed within its own territory also receive deference in domestic courts under the act of state doctrine.  See Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246 U. S. 297, 302-303 (1918).  Recognition at international law, furthermore, is a precondition of regular diplomatic relations.  1 Moore §27, at 72.  Recognition is thus "useful, even necessary," to the existence of a state.  Ibid.
     Despite the importance of the recognition power in foreign relations, the Constitution does not use the term "recognition," either in Article II or elsewhere.  The Secretary asserts that the President exercises the recognition power based on the Reception Clause, which directs that the President "shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers."  Art. II, §3.  As Zivotofsky notes, the Reception Clause received little attention at the Constitutional Convention.  See Reinstein, Recognition: A Case Study on the Original Understanding of Executive Power, 45 U. Rich. L. Rev. 801, 860-862 (2011).  In fact, during the ratification debates, Alexander Hamilton claimed that the power to receive ambassadors was "more a matter of dignity than of authority," a ministerial duty largely "without consequence."  The Federalist No. 69, p. 420 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).
     At the time of the founding, however, prominent international scholars suggested that receiving an ambassador was tantamount to recognizing the sovereignty of the sending state.  See E. de Vattel, The Law of Nations §78, p. 461 (1758) (J. Chitty ed. 1853) ("[E]very state, truly possessed of sovereignty, has a right to send ambassadors" and "to contest their right in this instance" is equivalent to "contesting their sovereign dignity"); see also 2 C. van Bynkershoek, On Questions of Public Law 156-157 (1737) (T. Frank ed. 1930) ("Among writers on public law it is usually agreed that only a sovereign power has a right to send ambassadors"); 2 H. Grotius, On the Law of War and Peace 440-441 (1625) (F. Kelsey ed. 1925) (discussing the duty to admit ambassadors of sovereign powers).  It is a logical and proper inference, then, that a Clause directing the President alone to receive ambassadors would be understood to acknowledge his power to recognize other nations.
     This in fact occurred early in the Nation's history when President Washington recognized the French Revolutionary Government by receiving its ambassador.  See A. Hamilton, Pacificus No. 1, in The Letters of Pacificus and Helvidius 5, 13-14 (1845) (reprint 1976) (President "acknowledged the republic of France, by the reception of its minister").  After this incident the import of the Reception Clause became clear--causing Hamilton to change his earlier view.  He wrote that the Reception Clause "includes th[e power] of judging, in the case of a revolution of government in a foreign country, whether the new rulers are competent organs of the national will, and ought to be recognised, or not."  See id., at 12; see also 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1560, p. 416 (1833) ("If the executive receives an ambassador, or other minister, as the representative of a new nation . . . it is an acknowledgment of the sovereign authority de facto of such new nation, or party").  As a result, the Reception Clause provides support, although not the sole authority, for the President's power to recognize other nations.
     The inference that the President exercises the recognition power is further supported by his additional Article II powers.  It is for the President, "by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate," to "make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur."  Art. II, §2, cl. 2.  In addition, "he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors" as well as "other public Ministers and Consuls."  Ibid.
     As a matter of constitutional structure, these additional powers give the President control over recognition decisions.  At international law, recognition may be effected by different means, but each means is dependent upon Presidential power.  In addition to receiving an ambassador, recognition may occur on "the conclusion of a bilateral treaty," or the "formal initiation of diplomatic relations," including the dispatch of an ambassador.  Brownlie 93; see also 1 Moore §27, at 73.  The President has the sole power to negotiate treaties, see United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 319 (1936), and the Senate may not conclude or ratify a treaty without Presidential action.  The President, too, nominates the Nation's ambassadors and dispatches other diplomatic agents.  Congress may not send an ambassador without his involvement.  Beyond that, the President himself has the power to open diplomatic channels simply by engaging in direct diplomacy with foreign heads of state and their ministers.  The Constitution thus assigns the President means to effect recognition on his own initiative.  Congress, by contrast, has no constitutional power that would enable it to initiate diplomatic relations with a foreign nation.  Because these specific Clauses confer the recognition power on the President, the Court need not consider whether or to what extent the Vesting Clause, which provides that the "executive Power" shall be vested in the President, provides further support for the President's action here.  Art. II, §1, cl. 1.
     The text and structure of the Constitution grant the President the power to recognize foreign nations and governments.  The question then becomes whether that power is exclusive.  The various ways in which the President may unilaterally effect recognition--and the lack of any similar power vested in Congress--suggest that it is.  So, too, do functional considerations.  Put simply, the Nation must have a single policy regarding which governments are legitimate in the eyes of the United States and which are not.  Foreign countries need to know, before entering into diplomatic relations or commerce with the United States, whether their ambassadors will be received; whether their officials will be immune from suit in federal court; and whether they may initiate lawsuits here to vindicate their rights.  These assurances cannot be equivocal.
     Recognition is a topic on which the Nation must " 'speak . . . with one voice.' "  American Ins. Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 424 (2003) (quoting Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 381 (2000)).  That voice must be the President's.  Between the two political branches, only the Executive has the characteristic of unity at all times.  And with unity comes the ability to exercise, to a greater degree, "[d]ecision, activity, secrecy, and dispatch."  The Federalist No. 70, p. 424 (A. Hamilton).  The President is capable, in ways Congress is not, of engaging in the delicate and often secret diplomatic contacts that may lead to a decision on recognition.  See, e.g., United States v. Pink, 315 U. S. 203, 229 (1942).  He is also better positioned to take the decisive, unequivocal action necessary to recognize other states at international law.  1 Oppenheim's International Law §50, p. 169 (R. Jennings & A. Watts eds., 9th ed. 1992) (act of recognition must "leave no doubt as to the intention to grant it").  These qualities explain why the Framers listed the traditional avenues of recognition--receiving ambassadors, making treaties, and sending ambassadors--as among the President's Article II powers.
     As described in more detail below, the President since the founding has exercised this unilateral power to recognize new states--and the Court has endorsed the practice.  See Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino, 376 U. S. 398, 410 (1964); Pink, supra, at 229; Williams v. Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420 (1839).  Texts and treatises on international law treat the President's word as the final word on recognition.  See, e.g., Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law §204, at 89 ("Under the Constitution of the United States the President has exclusive authority to recognize or not to recognize a foreign state or government"); see also L. Henkin, Foreign Affairs and the U. S. Constitution 43 (2d ed. 1996) ("It is no longer questioned that the President does not merely perform the ceremony of receiving foreign ambassadors but also determines whether the United States should recognize or refuse to recognize a foreign government").  In light of this authority all six judges who considered this case in the Court of Appeals agreed that the President holds the exclusive recognition power.  See 725 F. 3d, at 214 ("[W]e conclude that the President exclusively holds the power to determine whether to recognize a foreign sovereign"); Zivotofsky, 571 F. 3d, at 1231 ("That this power belongs solely to the President has been clear from the earliest days of the Republic"); id., at 1240 (Edwards, J., concurring) ("The Executive has exclusive and unreviewable authority to recognize foreign sovereigns").
     It remains true, of course, that many decisions affecting foreign relations--including decisions that may determine the course of our relations with recognized countries--require congressional action.  Congress may "regulate Commerce with foreign Nations," "establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," "define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations," "declare War," "grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal," and "make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces."  U. S. Const., Art. I, §8.  In addition, the President cannot make a treaty or appoint an ambassador without the approval of the Senate.  Art. II, §2, cl. 2.  The President, furthermore, could not build an American Embassy abroad without congressional appropriation of the necessary funds.  Art. I, §8, cl. 1.  Under basic separation-of-powers principles, it is for the Congress to enact the laws, including "all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution" the powers of the Federal Government.  §8, cl. 18.
     In foreign affairs, as in the domestic realm, the Constitution "enjoins upon its branches separateness but interdependence, autonomy but reciprocity."  Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 635 (Jackson, J., concurring).  Although the President alone effects the formal act of recognition, Congress' powers, and its central role in making laws, give it substantial authority regarding many of the policy determinations that precede and follow the act of recognition itself.  If Congress disagrees with the President's recognition policy, there may be consequences.  Formal recognition may seem a hollow act if it is not accompanied by the dispatch of an ambassador, the easing of trade restrictions, and the conclusion of treaties.  And those decisions require action by the Senate or the whole Congress.
     In practice, then, the President's recognition determination is just one part of a political process that may require Congress to make laws.  The President's exclusive recognition power encompasses the authority to acknowledge, in a formal sense, the legitimacy of other states and governments, including their territorial bounds.  Albeit limited, the exclusive recognition power is essential to the conduct of Presidential duties.  The formal act of recognition is an executive power that Congress may not qualify.  If the President is to be effective in negotiations over a formal recognition determination, it must be evident to his counterparts abroad that he speaks for the Nation on that precise question.  
     A clear rule that the formal power to recognize a foreign government subsists in the President therefore serves a necessary purpose in diplomatic relations.  All this, of course, underscores that Congress has an important role in other aspects of foreign policy, and the President may be bound by any number of laws Congress enacts.  In this way ambition counters ambition, ensuring that the democratic will of the people is observed and respected in foreign affairs as in the domestic realm.  See The Federalist No. 51, p. 322 (J. Madison).  
B
     No single precedent resolves the question whether the President has exclusive recognition authority and, if so, how far that power extends.  In part that is because, until today, the political branches have resolved their disputes over questions of recognition.  The relevant cases, though providing important instruction, address the division of recognition power between the Federal Government and the States, see, e.g., Pink, 315 U. S. 203, or between the courts and the political branches, see, e.g., Banco Nacional de Cuba, 376 U. S., at 410--not between the President and Congress.  As the parties acknowledge, some isolated statements in those cases lend support to the position that Congress has a role in the recognition process.  In the end, however, a fair reading of the cases shows that the President's role in the recognition process is both central and exclusive.
     During the administration of President Van Buren, in a case involving a dispute over the status of the Falkland Islands, the Court noted that "when the executive branch of the government" assumes "a fact in regard to the sovereignty of any island or country, it is conclusive on the judicial department."  Williams, 13 Pet., at 420.  Once the President has made his determination, it "is enough to know, that in the exercise of his constitutional functions, he has decided the question.  Having done this under the responsibilities which belong to him, it is obligatory on the people and government of the Union."  Ibid.
      Later, during the 1930's and 1940's, the Court addressed issues surrounding President Roosevelt's decision to recognize the Soviet Government of Russia.  In United States v. Belmont, 301 U. S. 324 (1937), and Pink, 315 U. S. 203, New York state courts declined to give full effect to the terms of executive agreements the President had concluded in negotiations over recognition of the Soviet regime.  In particular the state courts, based on New York public policy, did not treat assets that had been seized by the Soviet Government as property of Russia and declined to turn those assets over to the United States.  The Court stated that it "may not be doubted" that "recognition, establishment of diplomatic relations, . . . and agreements with respect thereto" are "within the competence of the President."  Belmont, 301 U. S., at 330.  In these matters, "the Executive ha[s] authority to speak as the sole organ of th[e] government."  Ibid.  The Court added that the President's authority "is not limited to a determination of the government to be recognized.  It includes the power to determine the policy which is to govern the question of recognition."  Pink, supra, at 229; see also Guaranty Trust Co., 304 U. S., at 137-138 (The "political department['s] . . . action in recognizing a foreign government and in receiving its diplomatic representatives is conclusive on all domestic courts").  Thus, New York state courts were required to respect the executive agreements.
     It is true, of course, that Belmont and Pink are not direct holdings that the recognition power is exclusive.  Those cases considered the validity of executive agreements, not the initial act of recognition.  The President's determination in those cases did not contradict an Act of Congress.  And the primary issue was whether the executive agreements could supersede state law.  Still, the language in Pink and Belmont, which confirms the President's competence to determine questions of recognition, is strong support for the conclusion that it is for the President alone to determine which foreign governments are legitimate.
     Banco Nacional de Cuba contains even stronger statements regarding the President's authority over recognition.  There, the status of Cuba's Government and its acts as a sovereign were at issue.  As the Court explained, "Political recognition is exclusively a function of the Executive."  376 U. S., at 410.  Because the Executive had recognized the Cuban Government, the Court held that it should be treated as sovereign and could benefit from the "act of state" doctrine.  See also Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186, 213 (1962) ("[I]t is the executive that determines a person's status as representative of a foreign government"); National City Bank of N. Y., 348 U. S., at 358 ("The status of the Republic of China in our courts is a matter for determination by the Executive and is outside the competence of this Court").  As these cases illustrate, the Court has long considered recognition to be the exclusive prerogative of the Executive.
     The Secretary now urges the Court to define the executive power over foreign relations in even broader terms.  He contends that under the Court's precedent the President has "exclusive authority to conduct diplomatic relations," along with "the bulk of foreign-affairs powers."  Brief for Respondent 18, 16.  In support of his submission that the President has broad, undefined powers over foreign affairs, the Secretary quotes United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., which described the President as "the sole organ of the federal government in the field of international relations."  299 U. S., at 320.  This Court declines to acknowledge that unbounded power.  A formulation broader than the rule that the President alone determines what nations to formally recognize as legitimate--and that he consequently controls his statements on matters of recognition--presents different issues and is unnecessary to the resolution of this case.
     The Curtiss-Wright case does not extend so far as the Secretary suggests.  In Curtiss-Wright, the Court considered whether a congressional delegation of power to the President was constitutional.  Congress had passed a joint resolution giving the President the discretion to prohibit arms sales to certain militant powers in South America.  The resolution provided criminal penalties for violation of those orders.  Id., at 311-312.  The Court held that the delegation was constitutional, reasoning that Congress may grant the President substantial authority and discretion in the field of foreign affairs.  Id., at 315-329.  Describing why such broad delegation may be appropriate, the opinion stated:
"In this vast external realm, with its important, complicated, delicate and manifold problems, the President alone has the power to speak or listen as a representative of the nation.  He makes treaties with the advice and consent of the Senate; but he alone negotiates.  Into the field of negotiation the Senate cannot intrude; and Congress itself is powerless to invade it.  As Marshall said in his great argument of March 7, 1800, in the House of Representatives, 'The President is the sole organ of the nation in its external relations, and its sole representative with foreign nations.'  [10 Annals of Cong.] 613. "  Id., at 319.
     This description of the President's exclusive power was not necessary to the holding of Curtiss-Wright--which, after all, dealt with congressionally authorized action, not a unilateral Presidential determination.  Indeed, Curtiss-Wright did not hold that the President is free from Congress' lawmaking power in the field of international relations.  The President does have a unique role in communicating with foreign governments, as then-Congressman John Marshall acknowledged.  See 10 Annals of Cong. 613 (1800) (cited in Curtiss-Wright, supra, at 319).  But whether the realm is foreign or domestic, it is still the Legislative Branch, not the Executive Branch, that makes the law.
     In a world that is ever more compressed and interdependent, it is essential the congressional role in foreign affairs be understood and respected.  For it is Congress that makes laws, and in countless ways its laws will and should shape the Nation's course.  The Executive is not free from the ordinary controls and checks of Congress merely because foreign affairs are at issue.  See, e.g., Medellín v. Texas, 552 U. S. 491, 523-532 (2008); Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 589; Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch 170, 177-179 (1804); Glennon, Two Views of Presidential Foreign Affairs Power: Little v. Barreme or Curtiss-Wright?  13 Yale J. Int'l L. 5, 19-20 (1988); cf. Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U. S. 654, 680-681 (1981).  It is not for the President alone to determine the whole content of the Nation's foreign policy.
     That said, judicial precedent and historical practice teach that it is for the President alone to make the specific decision of what foreign power he will recognize as legitimate, both for the Nation as a whole and for the purpose of making his own position clear within the context of recognition in discussions and negotiations with foreign nations.  Recognition is an act with immediate and powerful significance for international relations, so the President's position must be clear.  Congress cannot require him to contradict his own statement regarding a determination of formal recognition.
     Zivotofsky's contrary arguments are unconvincing.  The decisions he relies upon are largely inapposite.  This Court's cases do not hold that the recognition power is shared.  Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202 (1890), and Boumediene v. Bush, 553 U. S. 723 (2008), each addressed the status of territories controlled or acquired by the United States--not whether a province ought to be recognized as part of a foreign country.  See also Vermilya-Brown Co. v. Connell, 335 U. S. 377, 380 (1948) ("[D]etermination of [American] sovereignty over an area is for the legislative and executive departments").  And no one disputes that Congress has a role in determining the status of United States territories.  See U. S. Const., Art. IV, §3, cl. 2 (Congress may "dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States").  Other cases describing a shared power address the recognition of Indian tribes--which is, similarly, a distinct issue from the recognition of foreign countries.  See Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1 (1831).
     To be sure, the Court has mentioned both of the political branches in discussing international recognition, but it has done so primarily in affirming that the Judiciary is not responsible for recognizing foreign nations.  See Oetjen, 246 U. S., at 302 (" 'Who is the sovereign, de jure or de facto, of a territory is not a judicial, but is a political question, the determination of which by the legislative and executive departments of any government conclusively binds the judges' " (quoting Jones, supra, at 212)); United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 643 (1818) ("[T]he courts of the union must view [a] newly constituted government as it is viewed by the legislative and executive departments of the government of the United States"). This is consistent with the fact that Congress, in the ordinary course, does support the President's recognition policy, for instance by confirming an ambassador to the recognized foreign government.  Those cases do not cast doubt on the view that the Executive Branch determines whether the United States will recognize foreign states and governments and their territorial bounds.
C
     Having examined the Constitution's text and this Court's precedent, it is appropriate to turn to accepted understandings and practice.  In separation-of-powers cases this Court has often "put significant weight upon historical practice."  NLRB v. Noel Canning, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 6) (emphasis deleted).  Here, history is not all on one side, but on balance it provides strong support for the conclusion that the recognition power is the President's alone.  As Zivotofsky argues, certain historical incidents can be interpreted to support the position that recognition is a shared power.  But the weight of historical evidence supports the opposite view, which is that the formal determination of recognition is a power to be exercised only by the President.
     The briefs of the parties and amici, which have been of considerable assistance to the Court, give a more complete account of the relevant history, as do the works of scholars in this field.  See, e.g., Brief for Respondent 26-39; Brief for Petitioner 34-57; Brief for American Jewish Committee as Amicus Curiae 6-24; J. Goebel, The Recognition Policy of the United States 97-170 (1915) (Goebel); 1 Moore §§28-58, 74-164; Reinstein, Is the President's Recognition Power Exclusive? 86 Temp. L. Rev. 1, 3-50 (2013).  But even a brief survey of the major historical examples, with an emphasis on those said to favor Zivotofsky, establishes no more than that some Presidents have chosen to cooperate with Congress, not that Congress itself has exercised the recognition power.
     From the first Administration forward, the President has claimed unilateral authority to recognize foreign sovereigns.  For the most part, Congress has acquiesced in the Executive's exercise of the recognition power.  On occasion, the President has chosen, as may often be prudent, to consult and coordinate with Congress.  As Judge Tatel noted in this case, however, "the most striking thing" about the history of recognition "is what is absent from it: a situation like this one," where Congress has enacted a statute contrary to the President's formal and considered statement concerning recognition.  725 F. 3d, at 221 (concurring opinion).
     The first debate over the recognition power arose in 1793, after France had been torn by revolution.  See Prakash & Ramsey, The Executive Power over Foreign Affairs, 111 Yale L. J. 231, 312 (2001).  Once the Revolutionary Government was established, Secretary of State Jefferson and President Washington, without consulting Congress, authorized the American Ambassador to resume relations with the new regime.  See Letter to Gouverneur Morris (Mar. 12, 1793), in 25 Papers of Thomas Jefferson 367, 367-368 (J. Catanzariti ed. 1992); Goebel 99-104.  Soon thereafter, the new French Government proposed to send an ambassador, Citizen Genet, to the United States.  See id., at 105.  Members of the President's Cabinet agreed that receiving Genet would be a binding and public act of recognition.  See Opinion on the Treaties with France (Apr. 28, 1793), in 25 Papers of Thomas Jefferson, at 608, 612 ("The reception of the Minister at all . . . is an ackno[w]le[d]gement of the legitimacy of their government"); see also Letter from A. Hamilton to G. Washington (Cabinet Paper) (Apr. 1793), in 4 Works of Alexander Hamilton 369, 369-396 (H. Lodge ed. 1904).  They decided, however, both that Genet should be received and that consultation with Congress was not necessary.  See T. Jefferson, Anas (Apr. 18, 1793), in 1 Writings of Thomas Jefferson 226, 227 (P. Ford ed. 1892); Cabinet Opinion on Washington's Questions on Neutrality and the Alliance with France (Apr. 19, 1793), in 25 Papers of Thomas Jefferson, at 570.  Congress expressed no disagreement with this position, and Genet's reception marked the Nation's first act of recognition--one made by the President alone.  See Prakash, supra, at 312-313.
     The recognition power again became relevant when yet another revolution took place--this time, in South America, as several colonies rose against Spain.  In 1818, Speaker of the House Henry Clay announced he "intended moving the recognition of Buenos Ayres and probably of Chile."  Goebel 121.  Clay thus sought to appropriate money " '[f ]or one year's salary' " for " 'a Minister' " to present-day Argentina.  32 Annals of Cong. 1500 (1818).  President Monroe, however, did not share that view.  Although Clay gave "one of the most remarkable speeches of his career," his proposed bill was defeated.  Goebel 123; 32 Annals of Cong. 1655.  That action has been attributed, in part, to the fact that Congress agreed the recognition power rested solely with the President.  Goebel 124; see, e.g., 32 Annals of Cong. 1570 (statement of Rep. Alexander Smyth) ("[T]he acknowledgment of the independence of a new Power is an exercise of Executive authority; consequently, for Congress to direct the Executive how he shall exercise this power, is an act of usurpation").  Four years later, after the President had decided to recognize the South American republics, Congress did pass a resolution, on his request, appropriating funds for "such missions to the independent nations on the American continent, as the President of the United States may deem proper."  Act of May 4, 1822, ch. 52, 3 Stat. 678.
     A decade later, President Jackson faced a recognition crisis over Texas.  In 1835, Texas rebelled against Mexico and formed its own government.  See Goebel 144-147. But the President feared that recognizing the new government could ignite a war.  See A. Jackson, To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States (Dec. 21, 1836), in 3 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 265, 266-267 (J. Richardson ed. 1899).  After Congress urged him to recognize Texas, see Cong. Globe, 24th Cong., 1st Sess., 453 (1836); H. R. Rep. No. 854, 24th Cong., 1st Sess. (1836), the President delivered a message to the Legislature.  He concluded there had not been a "deliberate inquiry" into whether the President or Congress possessed the recognition power.  See A. Jackson, in 3 Messages and Papers of the Presidents, at 267. He stated, however, "on the ground of expediency, I am disposed to concur" with Congress' preference regarding Texas.  Ibid.  In response Congress appropriated funds for a "diplomatic agent to be sent to the Republic of Texas, whenever the President of the United States . . . shall deem it expedient to appoint such minister."  Act of Mar. 3, 1837, 5 Stat. 170.  Thus, although he cooperated with Congress, the President was left to execute the formal act of recognition.
     President Lincoln, too, sought to coordinate with Congress when he requested support for his recognition of Liberia and Haiti.  In his first annual message to Congress he said he could see no reason "why we should persevere longer in withholding our recognition of the independence and sovereignty of Hayti and Liberia."  Lincoln's First Annual Message to Congress (Dec. 3, 1861), in 6 Messages and Papers of the Presidents 44, 47.  Nonetheless, he was "[u]nwilling" to "inaugurate a novel policy in regard to them without the approbation of Congress."  Ibid.  In response Congress concurred in the President's recognition determination and enacted a law appropriating funds to appoint diplomatic representatives to the two countries--leaving, as usual, the actual dispatch of ambassadors and formal statement of recognition to the President.  Act of June 5, 1862, 12 Stat. 421.
     Three decades later, the branches again were able to reach an accord, this time with regard to Cuba.  In 1898, an insurgency against the Spanish colonial government was raging in Cuba.  President McKinley determined to ask Congress for authorization to send armed forces to Cuba to help quell the violence.  See 31 Cong. Rec. 3699-3702 (1898).  Although McKinley thought Spain was to blame for the strife, he opposed recognizing either Cuba or its insurgent government.  Id., at 3701.  At first, the House proposed a resolution consistent with McKinley's wishes.  Id., at 3810.  The Senate countered with a resolution that authorized the use of force but that did recognize both Cuban independence and the insurgent government.  Id., at 3993.  When the Senate's version reached the House, the House again rejected the language recognizing Cuban independence.  Id., at 4017.  The resolution went to Conference, which, after debate, reached a compromise.  See Reinstein, 86 Temp. L. Rev., at 40-41.  The final resolution stated "the people of the Island of Cuba are, and of right ought to be, free and independent," but made no mention of recognizing a new Cuban Government.  Act of Apr. 20, 1898, 30 Stat. 738.  Accepting the compromise, the President signed the joint resolution.  See Reinstein, 86 Temp. L. Rev., at 41.
     For the next 80 years, "[P]residents consistently recognized new states and governments without any serious opposition from, or activity in, Congress."  Ibid.; see 2 Whiteman §§6-60, at 133-242 (detailing over 50 recognition decisions made by the Executive).  The next debate over recognition did not occur until the late 1970's.  It concerned China.
     President Carter recognized the People's Republic of China (PRC) as the government of China, and derecognized the Republic of China, located on Taiwan.  See S. Kan, Cong. Research Serv., China/Taiwan: Evolution of the "One China" Policy--Key Statements from Washington, Beijing, and Taipei 1, 10 (Oct. 10, 2014).  As to the status of Taiwan, the President "acknowledge[d] the Chinese position" that "Taiwan is part of China," id., at 39 (text of U. S.-PRC Joint Communique on the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations (Jan. 1, 1979)), but he did not accept that claim.  The President proposed a new law defining how the United States would conduct business with Taiwan.  See Hearings on Taiwan Legislation before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, 96th Cong., 1st Sess., 2-6 (1979) (statement of Warren Christopher, Deputy Secretary of State).  After extensive revisions, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Taiwan Relations Act, 93 Stat. 14 (1979) (codified as amended at 22 U. S. C. §§3301-3316).  The Act (in a simplified summary) treated Taiwan as if it were a legally distinct entity from China--an entity with which the United States intended to maintain strong ties.  See, e.g., §§3301, 3303(a), (b)(1), (b)(7).
     Throughout the legislative process, however, no one raised a serious question regarding the President's exclusive authority to recognize the PRC--or to decline to grant formal recognition to Taiwan.  See, e.g., 125 Cong. Rec. 6709 (1979) (statement of Sen. Jacob Javits) ("Neither bill [proposed by either Chamber] sought to reestablish official relations between the United States and the Republic of China on Taiwan; Congress . . . does not have the authority to do that even if it wanted to do so").  Rather, Congress accepted the President's recognition determination as a completed, lawful act; and it proceeded to outline the trade and policy provisions that, in its judgment, were appropriate in light of that decision.
     This history confirms the Court's conclusion in the instant case that the power to recognize or decline to recognize a foreign state and its territorial bounds resides in the President alone.  For the most part, Congress has respected the Executive's policies and positions as to formal recognition.  At times, Congress itself has defended the President's constitutional prerogative.  Over the last 100 years, there has been scarcely any debate over the President's power to recognize foreign states.  In this respect the Legislature, in the narrow context of recognition, on balance has acknowledged the importance of speaking "with one voice."  Crosby, 530 U. S., at 381.  The weight of historical evidence indicates Congress has accepted that the power to recognize foreign states and governments and their territorial bounds is exclusive to the Presidency.
III
     As the power to recognize foreign states resides in the President alone, the question becomes whether §214(d) infringes on the Executive's consistent decision to withhold recognition with respect to Jerusalem.  See Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433 U. S. 425, 443 (1977) (action unlawful when it "prevents the Executive Branch from accomplishing its constitutionally assigned functions").
     Section 214(d) requires that, in a passport or consular report of birth abroad, "the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel" for a "United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem."  116 Stat. 1366.  That is, §214(d) requires the President, through the Secretary, to identify citizens born in Jerusalem who so request as being born in Israel.  But according to the President, those citizens were not born in Israel.  As a matter of United States policy, neither Israel nor any other country is acknowledged as having sovereignty over Jerusalem.  In this way, §214(d) "directly contradicts" the "carefully calibrated and longstanding Executive branch policy of neutrality toward Jerusalem."  725 F. 3d, at 217, 216.
     If the power over recognition is to mean anything, it must mean that the President not only makes the initial, formal recognition determination but also that he may maintain that determination in his and his agent's statements.  This conclusion is a matter of both common sense and necessity.  If Congress could command the President to state a recognition position inconsistent with his own, Congress could override the President's recognition determination.  Under international law, recognition may be effected by "written or oral declaration of the recognizing state."  1 Moore §27, at 73.  In addition an act of recognition must "leave no doubt as to the intention to grant it."  1 Oppenheim's International Law §50, at 169.  Thus, if Congress could alter the President's statements on matters of recognition or force him to contradict them, Congress in effect would exercise the recognition power.
     As Justice Jackson wrote in Youngstown, when a Presidential power is "exclusive," it "disabl[es] the Congress from acting upon the subject."  343 U. S., at 637-638 (concurring opinion).  Here, the subject is quite narrow: The Executive's exclusive power extends no further than his formal recognition determination.  But as to that determination, Congress may not enact a law that directly contradicts it.  This is not to say Congress may not express its disagreement with the President in myriad ways.  For example, it may enact an embargo, decline to confirm an ambassador, or even declare war.   But none of these acts would alter the President's recognition decision.
     If Congress may not pass a law, speaking in its own voice, that effects formal recognition, then it follows that it may not force the President himself to contradict his earlier statement.  That congressional command would not only prevent the Nation from speaking with one voice but also prevent the Executive itself from doing so in conducting foreign relations.
     Although the statement required by §214(d) would not itself constitute a formal act of recognition, it is a mandate that the Executive contradict his prior recognition determination in an official document issued by the Secretary of State.  See Urtetiqui v. D'Arcy, 9 Pet. 692, 699 (1835) (a passport "from its nature and object, is addressed to foreign powers" and "is to be considered . . . in the character of a political document").  As a result, it is unconstitutional.  This is all the more clear in light of the longstanding treatment of a passport's place-of-birth section as an official executive statement implicating recognition.  See 725 F. 3d, at 224 (Tatel, J., concurring).  The Secretary's position on this point has been consistent: He will not place information in the place-of-birth section of a passport that contradicts the President's recognition policy.  See 7 FAM §1383.  If a citizen objects to the country listed as sovereign over his place of birth, then the Secretary will accommodate him by listing the city or town of birth rather than the country.  See id., §1383.6.  But the Secretary will not list a sovereign that contradicts the President's recognition policy in a passport.  Thus, the Secretary will not list "Israel" in a passport as the country containing Jerusalem.
     The flaw in §214(d) is further underscored by the undoubted fact that that the purpose of the statute was to infringe on the recognition power--a power the Court now holds is the sole prerogative of the President.  The statute is titled "United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel."  §214, 116 Stat. 1365.  The House Conference Report proclaimed that §214 "contains four provisions related to the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital."  H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 107-671, p. 123 (2002).  And, indeed, observers interpreted §214 as altering United States policy regarding Jerusalem--which led to protests across the region.  See supra, at 4.  From the face of §214, from the legislative history, and from its reception, it is clear that Congress wanted to express its displeasure with the President's policy by, among other things, commanding the Executive to contradict his own, earlier stated position on Jerusalem.  This Congress may not do.
     It is true, as Zivotofsky notes, that Congress has substantial authority over passports.  See Haig v. Agee, 453 U. S. 280 (1981); Zemel v. Rusk, 381 U. S. 1 (1965); Kent v. Dulles, 357 U. S. 116 (1958).  The Court does not question the power of Congress to enact passport legislation of wide scope.  In Kent v. Dulles, for example, the Court held that if a person's " 'liberty' " to travel "is to be regulated" through a passport, "it must be pursuant to the law-making functions of the Congress."  See id., at 129.  Later cases, such as Zemel v. Rusk and Haig v. Agee, also proceeded on the assumption that Congress must authorize the grounds on which passports may be approved or denied.  See Zemel, supra, at 7-13; Haig, supra, at 289-306.  This is consistent with the extensive lawmaking power the Constitution vests in Congress over the Nation's foreign affairs.
     The problem with §214(d), however, lies in how Congress exercised its authority over passports.  It was an improper act for Congress to "aggrandiz[e] its power at the expense of another branch" by requiring the President to contradict an earlier recognition determination in an official document issued by the Executive Branch.  Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U. S. 868, 878 (1991).  To allow Congress to control the President's communication in the context of a formal recognition determination is to allow Congress to exercise that exclusive power itself.  As a result, the statute is unconstitutional.
*  *  *
     In holding §214(d) invalid the Court does not question the substantial powers of Congress over foreign affairs in general or passports in particular.  This case is confined solely to the exclusive power of the President to control recognition determinations, including formal statements by the Executive Branch acknowledging the legitimacy of a state or government and its territorial bounds.  Congress cannot command the President to contradict an earlier recognition determination in the issuance of passports.
     The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is 
Affirmed.

Breyer, J., concurring
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-628
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents  and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN  ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. JOHN KERRY,  SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[June 8, 2015]

     Justice Breyer, concurring.
     I continue to believe that this case presents a political question inappropriate for judicial resolution.  See Zivo-tofsky v. Clinton, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (Breyer, J., dissenting).  But because precedent precludes resolving this case on political question grounds, see id., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 1), I join the Court's opinion.

Opinion of Thomas, J.
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-628
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents  and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN  ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. JOHN KERRY,  SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[June 8, 2015]

     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.
     Our Constitution allocates the powers of the Federal Government over foreign affairs in two ways.  First, it expressly identifies certain foreign affairs powers and vests them in particular branches, either individually or jointly.  Second, it vests the residual foreign affairs powers of the Federal Government--i.e., those not specifically enumerated in the Constitution--in the President by way of Article II's Vesting Clause.
     Section 214(d) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, ignores that constitutional allocation of power insofar as it directs the President, contrary to his wishes, to list "Israel" as the place of birth of Jerusalem-born citizens on their passports.  The President has long regulated passports under his residual foreign affairs power, and this portion of §214(d) does not fall within any of Congress' enumerated powers.
     By contrast, §214(d) poses no such problem insofar as it regulates consular reports of birth abroad.  Unlike passports, these reports were developed to effectuate the naturalization laws, and they continue to serve the role of identifying persons who need not be naturalized to obtain U. S. citizenship.  The regulation of these reports does not fall within the President's foreign affairs powers, but within Congress' enumerated powers under the Naturalization and Necessary and Proper Clauses.
     Rather than adhere to the Constitution's division of powers, the Court relies on a distortion of the President's recognition power to hold both of these parts of §214(d) unconstitutional.  Because I cannot join this faulty analysis, I concur only in the portion of the Court's judgment holding §214(d) unconstitutional as applied to passports.  I respectfully dissent from the remainder of the Court's judgment.
I
A
     The Constitution specifies a number of foreign affairs powers and divides them between the political branches.  Among others, Article I allocates to Congress the powers "[t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations," "[t]o establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," "[t]o define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offenses against the Law of Nations," and "[t]o declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water."  Art. I, §8.  For his part, the President has certain express powers relating to foreign affairs, including the powers, "by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate," to "appoint Ambassadors," and "to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur."  Art. II, §2.  He is also assigned certain duties with respect to foreign affairs, including serving as "Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States," ibid., and "receiv[ing] Ambassadors and other public Ministers," Art. II, §3.
     These specific allocations, however, cannot account for the entirety of the foreign affairs powers exercised by the Federal Government.  Neither of the political branches is expressly authorized, for instance, to communicate with foreign ministers, to issue passports, or to repel sudden attacks.  Yet the President has engaged in such conduct, with the support of Congress, since the earliest days of the Republic.  Prakash & Ramsey, The Executive Power Over Foreign Affairs, 111 Yale L. J. 231, 298-346 (2001) (Prakash & Ramsey).
     The President's longstanding practice of exercising unenumerated foreign affairs powers reflects a constitutional directive that "the President ha[s] primary responsibility--along with the necessary power--to protect the national security and to conduct the Nation's foreign relations."  Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, 542 U. S. 507, 580 (2004) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Specifically, the Vesting Clause of Article II provides that "[t]he executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States."  Art. II, §1.  This Clause is notably different from the Vesting Clause of Article I, which provides only that "[a]ll legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States," Art. I, §1 (emphasis added).  By omitting the words "herein granted" in Article II, the Constitution indicates that the "executive Power" vested in the President is not confined to those powers expressly identified in the document.  Instead, it includes all powers originally understood as falling within the "executive Power" of the Federal Government.
B
     Founding-era evidence reveals that the "executive Power" included the foreign affairs powers of a sovereign State.  See Prakash & Ramsey 253.  John Locke's 17th-century writings laid the groundwork for this understanding of executive power.  Locke described foreign affairs powers--including the powers of "war and peace, leagues and alliances, and all the transactions with all persons and communities without the commonwealth"--as "federative" power.  Second Treatise of Civil Government §146, p. 73 (J. Gough ed. 1947).  He defined the "executive" power as "comprehending the execution of the municipal laws of the society within itself upon all that are parts of it."  Id., §147, at 73.  Importantly, however, Locke explained that the federative and executive powers must be lodged together, lest "disorder and ruin" erupt from the division of the "force of the public."  Id., §148, at 73-74.
     Subsequent thinkers began to refer to both of these powers as aspects of "executive power."  William Blackstone, for example, described the executive power in England as including foreign affairs powers, such as the "power of sending embassadors to foreign states, and receiv-ing embassadors at home"; making "treaties, leagues, and alliances with foreign states and princes"; "making war and peace"; and "issu[ing] letters of marque and reprisal."  1 Commentaries on the Laws of England 245, 249, 250, 242-252 (1765) (Blackstone).  Baron de Montesquieu similarly described executive power as including the power to "mak[e] peace or war, sen[d] or receiv[e] embassies, establis[h] the public security, and provid[e] against invasions."  The Spirit of the Laws bk. XI, ch. 6, p. 151 (O. Piest ed., T. Nugent transl. 1949).  In fact, "most writers of [Montesquieu's] tim[e] w[ere] inclined to think of the executive branch of government as being concerned nearly entirely with foreign affairs."  W. Gwyn, The Meaning of the Separation of Powers 103 (1965).
     That understanding of executive power prevailed in America.  Following independence, Congress assumed control over foreign affairs under the Articles of Confederation.  See, e.g., Articles of Confederation, Art. IX, cl. 1.  At that time, many understood that control to be an exercise of executive power.  See Prakash & Ramsey 272, 275-278.  Letters among Members of the Continental Congress, for instance, repeatedly referred to the Department of Foreign Affairs, established under the control of the Continental Congress, as an "Executive departmen[t]" and to its officers as " 'Executives or Ministers.' "  Id., at 276, and nn. 194-196.  Similarly, the Essex Result of 1778--an influential report on the proposed Constitution for Massachusetts--described executive power as including both "external" and "internal" powers: The external executive power "comprehends war, peace, the sending and receiving ambassadors, and whatever concerns the transactions of the state with any other independent state," while the internal executive power "is employed in the peace, security and protection of the subject and his property."  Essex Result, in The Popular Sources of Political Authority: Documents on the Massachusetts Constitution of 1780, pp. 324, 337 (O. Handlin & M. Handlin eds. 1966).
     This view of executive power was widespread at the time of the framing of the Constitution.  Thomas Rutherforth's Institutes of Natural Law--a treatise routinely cited by the Founders, McDowell, The Limits of Natural Law: Thomas Rutherforth and the American Legal Tradition, 37 Am. J. Juris. 57, 59, and n. 10 (1992)--explained that "external executive power" includes "not only what is properly called military power, but the power likewise of making war or peace, the power of engaging in alliances for an encrease of strength, . . . the power of entering into treaties, and of making leagues to restore peace . . . and the power of adjusting the rights of a nation in respect of navigation, trade, etc.," 2 Institutes of Natural Law 55-56, 54-61 (1756).  During the ratification debates, James Wilson likewise referred to the "executive powers of government" as including the external powers of a nation.  2 J. Elliot, The Debates in the Several State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 500-502 (1863).  And Alexander Hamilton, writing as Publius, asserted that "[t]he actual conduct of foreign negotiations," "the arrangement of the army and navy, the directions of the operations of war . . . and other matters of a like nature" are "executive details" that "fal[l] peculiarly within the province of the executive department."  The Federalist No. 72, pp. 435-436 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).
     Given this pervasive view of executive power, it is unsurprising that those who ratified the Constitution understood the "executive Power" vested by Article II to include those foreign affairs powers not otherwise allocated in the Constitution.  James Iredell, for example, told the North Carolina ratifying convention that, under the new Constitution, the President would "regulate all intercourse with foreign powers" and act as the "primary agent" of the United States, though no specific allocation of foreign affairs powers in the document so provided.  4 Elliot, supra, at 127, 128.  And Alexander Hamilton presumed as much when he argued that the "[e]nergy" created in the Constitution's Executive would be "essential to the protection of the community against foreign attacks," even though no specific allocation of foreign affairs powers provided for the Executive to repel such assaults.  See The Federalist No. 70, p. 423.  These statements confirm that the "executive Power" vested in the President by Article II includes the residual foreign affairs powers of the Federal Government not otherwise allocated by the Constitution.1
C
     Early practice of the founding generation also supports this understanding of the "executive Power."  Upon taking office, President Washington assumed the role of chief diplomat; began to direct the Secretary of Foreign Affairs who, under the Articles of Confederation, had reported to the Congress; and established the foreign policy of the United States.  Prakash & Ramsey 296-297.  At the same time, he respected Congress' prerogatives to declare war, regulate foreign commerce, and appropriate funds.  Id., at 296.
     For its part, Congress recognized a broad Presidential role in foreign affairs.  Id., at 297-298.  It created an "Executive department" called the "Department of Foreign Affairs," with a Secretary wholly subordinate to the President.  An Act for Establishing an Executive Department, to be denominated the Department of Foreign Affairs, 1 Stat. 28.  The enabling Act provided that the Secretary was to "perform and execute such duties as shall from time to time be enjoined on or intrusted to him by the President," including those "relative to correspondences, commissions or instructions to or with public ministers or consuls, from the United States, or to negotiations with public ministers from foreign states or princes, or to memorials or other applications from foreign public ministers or other foreigners, or to such other matters respecting foreign affairs."  §1, id., at 29.  By referring to those duties as those "the President of the United States shall assign to the said department," ibid., the Act presumed the President inherently possessed power to engage in those tasks.
     Subsequent interactions between President Washington and Congress indicated that the parties involved believed the Constitution vested the President with authority to regulate dealings with foreign nations.  In his first State of the Union Address, President Washington told Congress that "[t]he interests of the United States require, that our intercourse with other nations should be facilitated by such provisions as will enable me to fulfil my duty in that respect."  First Annual Message (Jan. 8, 1790), in George Washington: A Collection 467, 468 (W. Allen ed. 1988).  To that end, he asked for compensation for employees and a fund designated for "defraying the expenses incident to the conduct of our foreign affairs."  Ibid.  Congress responded by passing "An Act providing the means of intercourse between the United States and foreign nations." Ch. 22, 1 Stat. 128.
     During the congressional debate over that bill, the President sought an opinion from Thomas Jefferson--at that time, Secretary of State--about the scope of the Senate's power in this area.  Jefferson responded that "[t]he transaction of business with foreign nations is executive altogether."  Opinion on the Powers of the Senate (Apr. 24, 1790), in 5 Writings of Thomas Jefferson 161 (P. Ford ed. 1895).  As such, Jefferson concluded that it properly belonged "to the head" of the executive department, "except as to such portions of it as are specially submitted to the senate."  Ibid.  According to Washington's diaries, he received similar advice from John Jay and James Madison about "the propriety of consulting the Senate on the places to which it would be necessary to send persons in the Diplomatic line, and Consuls."  6 The Diaries of George Washington 68 (D. Jackson & D. Twohig eds. 1979).  All agreed that the Senate lacked a "Constitutional right to interfere with either, & that it might be impolitic to draw it into a precedent their powers extending no farther than to an approbation or disapprobation of the person nominated by the President all the rest being Executive and vested in the President by the Constitution."  Ibid.
     Washington followed this advice.  He corresponded directly with U. S. ministers, moved them among countries, and removed them from their positions at will.  Prakash & Ramsey 308-309.  He also corresponded with foreign leaders, representing that his role as the " 'supreme executive authority' " authorized him to receive and respond to their letters on behalf of the United States.  Id., at 317.  When foreign ministers addressed their communications to Congress, he informed them of their error.  Id., at 321.
     Washington's control over foreign affairs extended beyond communications with other governments.  When confronted with the question whether to recognize the French Republic as the lawful government of France, he received the French Republic's emissary without the involvement of Congress.  Id., at 312.  When he later concluded that the emissary had acted inappropriately, he again acted without the involvement of Congress to ask the French executive to recall him.  Id., at 314-315.  Washington also declared neutrality on behalf of the United States during the war between England and France in 1793, see Proclamation of Neutrality (Apr. 22, 1793), an action Hamilton pseudonymously defended as a proper exercise of the power vested in the President by the "general grant" of executive power in the Vesting Clause.  Pacificus No. 1 (June 29, 1793), Letters of Pacificus and Helvidius 10 (1845); id., at 3.  For its part, Congress applauded the President's decision.  4 Annals of Cong. 18, 138 (1793).
     In short, the practices of the Washington administration and First Congress confirm that Article II's Vesting Clause was originally understood to include a grant of residual foreign affairs power to the Executive.
II
     The statutory provision at issue implicates the President's residual foreign affairs power.  Section 214(d) instructs the Secretary of State, upon request of a citizen born in Jerusalem (or that citizen's legal guardian), to list that citizen's place of birth as Israel on his passport and consular report of birth abroad, even though it is the undisputed position of the United States that Jerusalem is not a part of Israel.  The President argues that this provision violates his foreign affairs powers generally and his recognition power specifically.  Zivotofsky rejoins that Congress passed §214(d) pursuant to its enumerated powers and its action must therefore take precedence.
     Neither has it quite right.  The President is not constitutionally compelled to implement §214(d) as it applies to passports because passport regulation falls squarely within his residual foreign affairs power and Zivotofsky has identified no source of congressional power to require the President to list Israel as the place of birth for a citizen born in Jerusalem on that citizen's passport.  Section 214(d) can, however, be constitutionally applied to con-sular reports of birth abroad because those documents do not fall within the President's foreign affairs authority but do fall within Congress' enumerated powers over naturalization.2
A
1
     In the Anglo-American legal tradition, passports have consistently been issued and controlled by the body exercising executive power--in England, by the King; in the colonies, by the Continental Congress; and in the United States, by President Washington and every President since.
     Historically, "passports were classed with those documents known as safe conducts or letters of protection, by which the person of an enemy might be rendered safe and inviolable."  G. Hunt, U. S. Dept. of State, The American Passport: Its History 3 (1898).  Letters of safe conduct and passports performed different functions in England, but both grew out of the King's prerogative to regulate the "nation's intercourse with foreign nations," see 1 Blackstone 251-253.  The King issued letters of safe conduct during times of war, id., at 252, whereas passports were heirs to a tradition of requiring the King's license to depart the country, see, e.g., Richard II, Feb. 26, 1383, 2 Calendar of Close Rolls, pp. 281-282 (1920); 1 E. Turner, The Privy Council of England in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries 1603-1784, p. 151 (1927); see also K. Diplock, Passports and Protection in International Law, in 32 The Grotius Society, Transactions for the Year 1946, Problems of Public and Private International Law 42, 44 (1947).
     Both safe conducts and passports were in use at the time of the founding.  Passports were given "for greater security" "on ordinary occasions [to] persons who meet with no special interference in going and coming," whereas "safe-conduct[s]" were "given to persons who could not otherwise enter with safety the dominions of the sovereign granting it."  3 E. de Vattel, The Law of Nations §265, p. 331 (1758 ed. C. Fenwick transl. 1916) (emphasis deleted).  Both were issued by the person exercising the external sovereign power of a state.  See id., §§162, 275, at 69, 332.  In the absence of a separate executive branch of government, the Continental Congress issued passports during the American Revolution, see, e.g., Resolution (May 9, 1776), in 4 Journals of the Continental Congress 340-341; Resolution (May 24, 1776), in id., at 385; as did the Congress under the Articles of Confederation, see, e.g., 25 id., at 859 (Jan. 24, 1783) (discussing its authority to issue passports under the war power).
     After the ratification of the Constitution, President Washington immediately took responsibility for issuing passports.  Hunt, supra, at 3.  Although " '[p]ast practice does not, by itself, create power,' " "a governmental practice [that] has been open, widespread, and unchallenged since the early days of the Republic . . . should guide our interpretation of an ambiguous constitutional provision."  NLRB v. Noel Canning, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 5) (alteration in original; some internal quotation marks omitted).  The history of the President's passport regulation in this country is one such practice.  From the ratification until the end of the Civil War, the President issued passports without any authorization from Congress.  As the Department of State later remarked, "In the absence of any law upon the subject, the issuing of passports to Americans going abroad naturally fell to the Department of State, as one of its manifestly proper functions."  Hunt, supra, at 37.  To that end, the Secretary's authority was "entirely discretionary."  Urtetiqui v. D'Arcy, 9 Pet. 692, 699 (1835).  Congress acted in support of that authority by criminalizing the "violat[ion] [of] any safe-conduct or passport duly obtained and issued under the authority of the United States."  An Act for the Punishment of certain Crimes against the United States, §28, 1 Stat. 118.3  Congress only purported to authorize the President to issue such passports in 1856 and, even under that statute, it provided that passports should be issued "under such rules as the President shall designate and prescribe for and on behalf of the United States."  An Act to regulate the Diplomatic and Consular Systems of the United States, §23, 11 Stat. 60.  The President has continued to designate and prescribe the rules for passports ever since.
2
     That the President has the power to regulate passports under his residual foreign affairs powers does not, however, end the matter, for Congress has repeatedly legislated on the subject of passports.  These laws have always been narrow in scope.  For example, Congress enacted laws prohibiting the issuance of passports to noncitizens, id., at 61, created an exception to that rule for "persons liable to military duty," Act of Mar. 3, 1863, §23, 12 Stat. 754, and then eliminated that exception, Act of May 30, 1866, ch. 102, 14 Stat. 54.  It passed laws regulating the fees that the State Department should impose for issuance of the passports.  Act of May 16, 1932, ch. 187, 47 Stat. 157; Act of June 4, 1920, §1, 41 Stat. 750; Act of June 15, 1917, ch. 30, Title IX, §1, 40 Stat. 227; Act of Aug. 18, 1856, §23, 11 Stat. 60; Act of Mar. 1, 1855, §12, 10 Stat. 624.  It also enacted legislation addressing the duration for which passports may remain valid.  §116, 96 Stat. 279; Pub. L. 90-428, 82 Stat. 446; Pub. L. 86-267, 73 Stat. 552; Act of July 3, 1926, 44 Stat. 887.  And it passed laws imposing criminal penalties for false statements made when applying for passports, along with misuse of passports and counterfeiting or forgery of them.  Act of June 25, 1948, 62 Stat. 771; Act of Mar. 28, 1940, §7, 54 Stat. 80; 40 Stat. 227.4
     As with any congressional action, however, such legislation is constitutionally permissible only insofar as it is promulgated pursuant to one of Congress' enumerated powers.  I must therefore address whether Congress had constitutional authority to enact §214(d)'s regulation of passports.
a
     Zivotofsky and congressional amici identify three potential sources of congressional power to enact the portion of §214(d) dealing with passports.  Zivotofsky first argues that it falls within Congress' power "to regulate the issuance and content of United States passports."  Brief for Petitioner 17.  The U. S. Senate, as amicus curiae, likewise contends that it can be justified under Congress' "plenary authority over passports," which it derives from the penumbras of its powers " '[t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations' " and " '[t]o establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization.' "  Brief for United States Senate 3 (quoting U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cls. 3, 4).  None of these arguments withstands scrutiny.
     The Constitution contains no Passport Clause, nor does it explicitly vest Congress with "plenary authority over passports."  Because our Government is one of enumerated powers, "Congress has no power to act unless the Constitution authorizes it to do so."  United States v. Comstock, 560 U. S. 126, 159 (2010) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  And "[t]he Constitution plainly sets forth the 'few and defined' powers that Congress may exercise."  Ibid.  A "passport power" is not one of them.
     Section 214(d)'s passport directive fares no better under those powers actually included in Article I.  To start, it does not fall within the power "[t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations."  "At the time the original Constitution was ratified, 'commerce' consisted of selling, buying, and bartering, as well as transporting for these purposes."  United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 585 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring).  The listing of the place of birth of an applicant--whether born in Jerusalem or not--does not involve selling, buying, bartering, or transporting for those purposes.  Cf. United States v. Morrison, 529 U. S. 598, 613 (2000) ("[O]ur cases have upheld Commerce Clause regulation of intrastate activity [under the power to regulate commerce among the several States] only where that activity is economic in nature").
     True, a passport is frequently used by persons who may intend to engage in commerce abroad, but that use is insufficient to bring §214(d)'s passport directive within the scope of this power.  The specific conduct at issue here--the listing of the birthplace of a U. S. citizen born in Jerusalem on a passport by the President--is not a commercial activity.  Any commercial activities subsequently undertaken by the bearer of a passport are yet further removed from that regulation.
     The power "[t]o establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization" is similarly unavailing.  At the founding, the word "naturalization" meant "[t]he act of investing aliens with the privileges of native subjects."  2 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language 1293 (4th ed. 1773); see also T. Dyche & W. Pardon, A New General English Dictionary (1771) ("the making a foreigner or alien, a denizen or freeman of any kingdom or city, and so becoming, as it were, both a subject and a native of a king or country, that by nature he did not belong to").  A passport has never been issued as part of the naturalization process.  It is--and has always been--a "travel document," Dept. of State, 7 Foreign Affairs Manual (or FAM) §1311(b) (2013), issued for the same purpose it has always served: a request from one sovereign to another for the protection of the bearer.  See supra, at 10-12.
b
     For similar reasons, the Necessary and Proper Clause gives Congress no authority here.  That Clause provides, "The Congress shall have Power . . . [t]o make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof."  U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 18.  As an initial matter, "Congress lacks authority to legislate [under this provision] if the objective is anything other than 'carrying into Execution' one or more of the Federal Government's enumerated powers."  Comstock, supra, at 161 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  The "end [must] be legitimate" under our constitutional structure.  McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819).
     But even if the objective of a law is carrying into execution one of the Federal Government's enumerated powers, the law must be both necessary and proper to that objective.  The "Clause is not a warrant to Congress to enact any law that bears some conceivable connection to the exercise of an enumerated power."  Gonzales v. Raich, 545 U. S. 1, 60 (2005) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Instead, "there must be a necessary and proper fit between the 'means' (the federal law) and the 'end' (the enumerated power or powers) it is designed to serve."  Comstock, supra, at 160 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  The "means" chosen by Congress "will be deemed 'necessary' if they are 'appropriate' and 'plainly adapted' to the exercise of an enumerated power, and 'proper' if they are not otherwise 'prohibited' by the Constitution and not '[in]consistent' with its 'letter and spirit.' "  Id., at 160-161  (alteration in original).
     The argument that §214(d), as applied to passports, could be an exercise of Congress' power to carry into execution its foreign commerce or naturalization powers falters because this aspect of §214(d) is directed at neither of the ends served by these powers.  Although at a high level of generality, a passport could be related to foreign commerce and naturalization, that attenuated relationship is insufficient.  The law in question must be "directly link[ed]" to the enumerated power.  Id., at 169, n. 8.  As applied to passports, §214(d) fails that test because it does not " 'carr[y] into Execution' " Congress' foreign commerce or naturalization powers.  Id., at 160.  At most, it bears a tertiary relationship to an activity Congress is permitted to regulate: It directs the President's formulation of a document, which, in turn, may be used to facilitate travel, which, in turn, may facilitate foreign commerce.  And the distinctive history of the passport as a travel rather than citizenship document makes its connection to naturalization even more tenuous.
     Nor can this aspect of §214(d) be justified as  an exercise of Congress' power to enact laws to carry into execution the President's residual foreign affairs powers. Simply put, §214(d)'s passport directive is not a "proper" means of carrying this power into execution.
     To be "proper," a law must fall within the peculiar competence of Congress under the Constitution.  Though "proper" was susceptible of several definitions at the time of the founding, only two are plausible candidates for use in the Necessary and Proper Clause--(1) "[f]it; accommodated; adapted; suitable; qualified" and (2) "[p]eculiar; not belonging to more; not common."  See 2 Johnson, supra, at 1537.  Because the former would render the word "necessary" superfluous, McCulloch, supra, at 413, and we ordinarily attempt to give effect "to each word of the Constitution," Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 87 (1900), the latter is the more plausible.  That is particularly true because the Constitution elsewhere uses the term "proper" by itself, Art. I, §9, Art. II, §§2, 3; the term "necessary" by itself, Art. I, §7; Art. V; and the term "necessary" as part of the phrase "necessary and expedient," Art. II, §3.  Thus, the best interpretation of "proper" is that a law must fall within the peculiar jurisdiction of Congress.
     Our constitutional structure imposes three key limitations on that jurisdiction: It must conform to (1) the allocation of authority within the Federal Government, (2) the allocation of power between the Federal Government and the States, and (3) the protections for retained individual rights under the Constitution.  See Lawson & Granger, The "Proper" Scope of Federal Power: A Jurisdictional Interpretation of the Sweeping Clause, 43 Duke L. J. 267, 291, 297 (1993).  In other words, to be "proper," a law "must be consistent with principles of separation of powers, principles of federalism, and individual rights."  Id., at 297.
     Commentators during the ratification debates treated "proper" as having this meaning.  Writing as Publius, Hamilton posed the question who would "judge . . . the necessity and propriety of the laws to be passed for executing the powers of the Union" and responded that "[t]he propriety of a law, in a constitutional light, must always be determined by the nature of the powers upon which it is founded."  The Federalist, No. 33, pp. 203-204.  For example, a law that "exceeded [Congress'] jurisdiction" and invaded the authority of the States would not meet that standard.  Id., at 204.  Similarly, an "impartial citizen" wrote in a Virginia newspaper that, even if the governmental powers could not "be executed without the aid of a law, granting commercial monopolies, inflicting un-usual punishments, creating new crimes, or commanding any unconstitutional act," thus making the law necessary to the execution of a power, "such a law would be manifestly not proper," and not "warranted by this clause, without absolutely departing from the usual acceptation of words."  An Impartial Citizen V, Petersburg Va. Gazette, Feb. 28, 1788, in 8 Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution 428, 431 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 1988) (emphasis deleted).
     Early interpretations of the Clause following ratification largely confirm that view.  Lawson & Granger, supra, at 298-308.  During debate on the Bank of the United States in the First Congress, for example, Representative Ames declared that the correct construction of the Necessary and Proper Clause "promotes the good of the society, and the ends for which the Government was adopted, without impairing the rights of any man, or the powers of any State."  2 Annals of Cong. 1906 (1791).  During the Second Congress, Representative Niles railed against a bill that would have authorized federal mail carriers to transport passengers for hire in order to reduce the cost of the mails.  He said that such a law would not be "proper" to the power to establish post offices and post roads because some States had "an exclusive right of carrying passengers for hire" and an interpretation of the word "proper" that would allow the bill would render "as nugatory, all [the States'] deliberations on the Constitution" and effectively vest Congress with "general authority to legislate on every subject."  3 id., at 308-310 (1792) (emphasis deleted).  Each of these comments presumed that the word "proper" imposed a jurisdictional limit on congressional activity.
     This evidence makes sense in light of the Framers' efforts to ensure a separation of powers, reinforced by checks and balances, as "practical and real protectio[n] for individual liberty in the new Constitution."  Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Assn., 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 8).  If Congress could rely on the Necessary and Proper Clause to exercise power expressly allocated to the other branches or to prevent the exercise of such power by other branches, it could undermine the constitutional allocation of powers.
     That the evidence thus points to a definition of "proper" that protects the separation of powers does not fully explain the way that the "proper" requirement operates when Congress seeks to facilitate the exercise of a power allocated to another branch.  I can see two potential mechanisms, either or both of which may accurately reflect the original understanding of the Clause.  First, a law could be "improper" if it purports to direct another branch's exercise of its power.  See Calabresi & Prakash, The President's Power to Execute the Laws, 104 Yale L. J. 541, 591 (1994) ("[T]he Clause . . . does [not] allow Congress to tell constitutionally empowered actors how they can implement their exclusive powers").  Second, a law could be "improper" if it takes one of those actions and the branch to which the power is allocated objects to the action.  See Prakash & Ramsey 255-256 ("Congress has the general power to legislate in support of the President's foreign policy goals.  But . . . [s]ince it is derivative of the President's power, it must be exercised in coordination with, and not in opposition to, the President").
     I need not resolve that question today, as the application of §214(d) to passports would be improper under either approach.  The President has made a determination that the "place of birth" on a passport should list the country of present sovereignty.  7 FAM, §1300, App. D, §1330 (2014).  And the President has determined that no country is presently exercising sovereignty over the area of Jerusalem.  Thus, the President has provided that passports for persons born in Jerusalem should list "Jerusalem" as the place of birth in the passport.  Id., §1360(f).  Section 214(d) directs the President to exercise his power to issue and regulate the content of passports in a particular way, and the President has objected to that direction.  Under either potential mechanism for evaluating the propriety of a law under the separation-of-powers limitation, this law would be improper.5
c
     In support of his argument that the President must enforce §214(d), Zivotofsky relies heavily on a similar statute addressing the place of birth designation for persons born in Taiwan.  See Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, §132, 108 Stat. 395.  That statute provided, "For purposes of the registration of birth or certification of nationality of a United States citizen born in Taiwan, the Secretary of State shall permit the place of birth to be recorded as Taiwan."  Ibid.  The President has adopted that practice.
     The President's decision to adopt that practice, however, says nothing about the constitutionality of the Taiwan provision in the first place.  The constitutional allocation of powers "does not depend on the views of individual Presidents, nor on whether the encroached upon branch approves the encroachment."  Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd., 561 U. S. 477, 497 (2010) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).6  And the argument from Presidential acquiescence here is particularly weak, given that the Taiwan statute is consistent with the President's longstanding policy on Taiwan.  At the time Congress enacted the statute, the Foreign Affairs Manual permitted consular officials to list "the city or area of birth" on a passport "[w]here the birthplace of the applicant is located in territory disputed by another country," 7 FAM §1383.5-2 (1987), and to list "the city or town, rather than the country" of an applicant's birth "when there are objections to the listing shown on the birthplace guide," id., §1383.6.  Because the President otherwise treats Taiwan as a geographical area within the People's Republic of China, listing Taiwan as the place of birth did not directly conflict with the President's prevailing practices.  Section 214(d) does so conflict, as it requires the President to list citizens born in Jerusalem as born in "Israel," even though the Foreign Affairs Manual has long prohibited that action.
d
     Justice Scalia would locate Congress' power to enact the passport directive of §214(d) in Congress' power under the Necessary and Proper Clause to bring into effect its enumerated power over naturalization.  Post, at 3-4 (dissenting opinion).  As an initial matter, he asserts that "[t]he naturalization power . . . enables Congress to furnish the people it makes citizens with papers verifying their citizenship," post, at 3, yet offers no support for this interpretation of a clause that, by its terms, grants Congress only the "Power . . . To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 4.  He then concludes that, if Congress can grant such documents, "it may also require these [documents] to record his birthplace as 'Israel' " pursuant to its power under the Necessary and Proper Clause, post, at 3.  But this theory does not account for the President's power to act in this area, nor does it confront difficult questions about the application of the Necessary and Proper Clause in the case of conflict among the branches.
     Justice Scalia disapproves of my "assertion of broad, unenumerated 'residual powers' in the President," post, at 19, but offers no response to my interpretation of the words "executive Power" in the Constitution.  Instead, he claims that I have argued for "Presidential primacy over passports" and then rejects that position based on two postratification English statutes, the early practice of nonfederal actors issuing passports in this country, and the same congressional statutes that I have already discussed, most of which were enacted after the Civil War.  Post, at 16-17; supra, at 13, and n. 4.  But I do not argue that the President possesses primary power over passports.  I need not argue that.  I argue only that Congress did not act according to any of the powers granted to it in the Constitution and, in such circumstances, the question of primacy does not arise.
     In any event, the historical evidence cited in Justice Scalia's dissent does not conflict with my analysis of the President's power in this area.  The two postratification English statutes implicitly acknowledged that passports are issued by executive officers in the exercise of executive power, see 38 Geo. III, ch. 50, §8, in 41 Eng. Stat. at Large 684; 33 Geo. III, ch. 4, §8, in 39 Eng. Stat. at Large 12, and the practice of executive officials in the States of this country confirms that relationship.  In addition, neither piece of historical evidence speaks to the scope of Congress' power to regulate passports under our federal system.  Justice Scalia's final piece of historical support--the increased congressional regulation of passports following the Civil War--is perhaps more on point from an institutional perspective, but still does not resolve the issue.  Those regulations were, as I have already described, narrow in scope and continued to leave primary regulation of the content of passports to the President.  To draw an inference from these "late-arising historical practices that are ambiguous at best"--and that might conflict with the original meaning of the "executive Power" and the "proper" requirement in the Necessary and Proper Clause--is a dubious way to undertake constitutional analysis.  See Noel Canning, 573 U. S., at ___ (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2).
     Even more dubious, however, is the cursory treatment of the Necessary and Proper Clause in Justice Scalia's dissent.  He asserts that, in acting pursuant to that Clause, "Congress . . . may not transcend boundaries upon legislative authority stated or implied elsewhere in the Constitution."  Post, at 4.  But he offers no explanation for what those implied limits might be or how they would operate.  Does he, for example, agree that the word "proper" requires Congress to act in a manner " 'consistent with principles of separation of powers, principles of federalism, and individual rights' "?  Supra, at 18 (quoting Lawson & Grainger, 43 Duke L. J., at 297).  If so, then why does he find that requirement satisfied in this case?  Is it because he views the President as having no constitutional authority to act in this area?  Or is it because he views Congress' directive to the President as consistent with the separation of powers, irrespective of the President's authority?  If the latter, is that because he perceives no separation-of-powers limitations on Congress when it acts to carry into execution one of its enumerated powers, as opposed to the enumerated powers of another branch?  And if that is the case, what textual, structural, or historical evidence exists for that interpretation?  Justice Scalia's dissent raises more questions than it answers.
     Justice Scalia's dissent does at least answer how, in his view, the Constitution would resolve a conflict between the political branches, each acting pursuant to the powers granted them under the Constitution.  He believes that congressional power should trump in any such conflict.  Post, at 18.  I see nothing in the Constitution that clearly mandates that solution to a difficult separation-of-powers question, and I need not opine on it.  I find no power under which Congress could lawfully have enacted the passport directive of §214(d), apart from its power under the Necessary and Proper Clause to carry into effect the President's powers.  And I have offered textual and historical support for my conclusion that the Clause does not include the power to direct the President's exercise of his passport power.
     Finally, Justice Scalia faults me for failing to consider a number of potential sources of congressional power for §214(d) not argued by any of the parties, ranging from the Fourteenth Amendment; to the Migration or Importation Clause, Art. I, §9, cl. 1; to the Territories Clause, Art. IV, §3, cl. 2.  Post, at 15.  But no one--not even Justice Scalia--has seriously contended that those provisions would afford a basis for the passport provision of §214(d).
     In the end, Justice Scalia characterizes my interpretation of the executive power, the naturalization power, and the Necessary and Proper Clause as producing "a presidency more reminiscent of George III than George Washington."  Post, at 19.  But he offers no competing interpretation of either the Article II Vesting Clause or the Necessary and Proper Clause.  And his decision about the Constitution's resolution of conflict among the branches could itself be criticized as creating a supreme legislative body more reminiscent of the Parliament in England than the Congress in America.
*  *  *
     Because the President has residual foreign affairs authority to regulate passports and because there appears to be no congressional power that justifies §214(d)'s application to passports, Zivotofsky's challenge to the Executive's designation of his place of birth on his passport must fail.
B
     Although the consular report of birth abroad shares some features with a passport, it is historically associated with naturalization, not foreign affairs.  In order to establish a "uniform Rule of Naturalization," Congress must be able to identify the categories of persons who are eligible for naturalization, along with the rules for that process.  Congress thus has always regulated the "acquisition of citizenship by being born abroad of American parents . . . in the exercise of the power conferred by the Constitution to establish a uniform rule of naturalization."  United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 688 (1898); see also Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420, 456 (1998) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (recognizing that "Congress has the power to set the requirements for acquisition of citizenship by persons not born within the territory of the United States").  It has determined that children born abroad to U. S. parents, subject to some exceptions, are natural-born citizens who do not need to go through the naturalization process.  8 U. S. C. §§ 1401(c), (d), (g).
     The consular report of birth abroad is well suited to carrying into execution the power conferred on Congress in the Naturalization Clause.  The report developed in response to Congress' requirement that children born abroad to U. S. citizens register with the consulate or lose their citizenship.  And it continues to certify the acquisition of U. S. citizenship at birth by a person born abroad to a U. S. citizen.  See 22 U. S. C. §2705(2).
     Although such persons have possessed a statutory right to citizenship at birth for much of this country's history,7 the process by which that citizenship is evidenced has varied over time.  Under the 1870 consular regulations, for instance, children born abroad to U. S. citizens were issued no certificates.  If they applied for a U. S. passport, then they were issued one "qualified by the obligations and duties" that attached to those citizens by virtue of their residence in a foreign nation.  Regulations Prescribed For The Use Of The Consular Service of the United States App. No. IV, p. 288 (1870); see also id., §109, at 38-39.  Congress acted in 1907 to require children residing abroad to register with their local consulate at the age of 18.  Act of Mar. 2, 1907, §6, 34 Stat. 1229.  Because of the importance of this registration requirement, consular officials began to issue reports to citizens confirming their registration.  See generally National Archives, General Records of the Dept. of State, Record Group 59, Passport Office, Decimal File, 1910-1949.
     In 1919, the Department of State acted to standardize the consular registration of children born abroad.  Report of Birth of Children to American Citizens Residing Abroad, General Instruction No. 652.  It urged consulates to impress upon U. S. citizens abroad the need to record the birth of their children within two years.  Id., at 2.  To encourage that effort, the Department permitted consular officials to issue reports attesting that the parents of U. S. citizens born abroad had presented sufficient evidence of citizenship for their children.  Ibid.
     The 1960's brought additional regulations of consular reports of birth abroad, 31 Fed. Reg. 13538 (1966), which continue in a substantially similar form to this day.  See 22 CFR §§50.5, 50.7 (2014).  As currently issued, the consular report of birth abroad includes the applicant's name, sex, place of birth, date of birth, and parents.  It has had the "same force and effect as proof of United States citizenship as [a] certificat[e] of naturalization" since 1982.  §117, 96 Stat. 279.
     Thus, although registration is no longer required to maintain birthright citizenship, the consular report of birth abroad remains the primary means by which children born abroad may obtain official acknowledgement of their citizenship.  See 22 CFR §51.43.  Once acknowledged as U. S. citizens, they need not pursue the naturalization process to obtain the rights and privileges of citizenship in this country.  Regulation of the report is thus "appropriate" and "plainly adapted" to the exercise of the naturalization power.  See Comstock, 560 U. S., at 161 (Thomas, J., dissenting).
     By contrast, regulation of the report bears no relationship to the President's residual foreign affairs power.  It has no historical pedigree uniquely associated with the President, contains no communication directed at a foreign power, and is primarily used for domestic purposes.  To the extent that a citizen born abroad seeks a document to use as evidence of his citizenship abroad, he must obtain a passport.  See generally 7 FAM §1311.
     Because regulation of the consular report of birth abroad is justified as an exercise of Congress' powers under the Naturalization and Necessary and Proper Clauses and does not fall within the President's foreign affairs powers, §214(d)'s treatment of that document is constitutional.8
III
     The majority does not perform this analysis, but instead relies on a variation of the recognition power.  That power is among the foreign affairs powers vested in the President by Article II's Vesting Clause, as is confirmed by Article II's express assignment to the President of the duty of receiving foreign Ambassadors, Art. II, §3.  But I cannot join the majority's analysis because no act of recognition is implicated here.9
     Under international law, "recognition of a state signifies acceptance of its position within the international community and the possession by it of the full range of rights and obligations which are the normal attributes of statehood."  1 Oppenheim's International Law §47, 158 (R. Jennings & A. Watts eds., 9th ed. 1992) (footnote omitted) (Oppenheim).10  It can be accomplished expressly or implicitly, but the key is to discern a clear intention on the part of one state to recognize another.  Id., §50, at 169.  Important consequences are understood to flow from one state's recognition of another: The new state, for instance, acquires the capacity to engage in diplomatic relations, including the negotiation of treaties, with the recognizing state.  Id., §47, at 158.  The new state is also entitled to sue in, invoke sovereign immunity from, and demand acceptance of official acts in the courts of the recognizing state.  Ibid.; see also I. Brownlie, Principles of Public International Law 95-96 (7th ed. 2008).
     Changes in territory generally do not affect the status of a state as an international person.  Oppenheim §57, at 204-205.  France, for example, "has over the centuries retained its identity although it acquired, lost and regained parts of its territory, changed its dynasty, was a kingdom, a republic, an empire, again a kingdom, again a republic, again an empire, and is now once more a republic."  Ibid.  "Even such loss of territory as occasions the reduction of a major power to a lesser status does not affect the state as an international person."  Id., §57, at 205.  Changes that would affect the status as an international person include the union of two separate international persons or a partial loss of independence.  Id., §58, at 206.
     Assuming for the sake of argument that listing a non-recognized foreign sovereign as a citizen's place of birth on a U. S. passport could have the effect of recognizing that sovereign under international law, no such recognition would occur under the circumstances presented here.  The United States has recognized Israel as a foreign sovereign since May 14, 1948.  Statement by the President Announcing the Recognition of the State of Israel, Public Papers of the Presidents, Harry S. Truman, p. 258 (1964).  That the United States has subsequently declined to acknowledge Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem has not changed its recognition of Israel as a sovereign state.  And even if the United States were to acknowledge Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem, that action would not change its recognition of Israel as a sovereign state.  That is because the United States has already afforded Israel the rights and responsibilities attendant to its status as a sovereign State.  Taking a different position on the Jerusalem question will have no effect on that recognition.11
     Perhaps recognizing that a formal recognition is not implicated here, the majority reasons that, if the Executive's exclusive recognition power "is to mean anything, it must mean that the President not only makes the initial, formal recognition determination but also that he may maintain that determination in his and his agent's statements."  Ante, at 26.  By "alter[ing] the President's statements on matters of recognition or forc[ing] him to contradict them," the majority reasons, "Congress in effect would exercise the recognition power."  Ante, at 27.  This argument stretches the recognition power beyond all recognition.  Listing a Jerusalem-born citizen's place of birth as "Israel" cannot amount to recognition because the United States already recognizes Israel as an international person.  Rather than adopt a novel definition of the recognition power, the majority should have looked to other foreign affairs powers in the Constitution to resolve this dispute.
*  *  *
     Adhering to the Constitution's allocation of powers leads me to reach a different conclusion in this case from my colleagues: Section 214(d) can be constitutionally applied to consular reports of birth abroad, but not passports.  I therefore respectfully concur in the judgment in part and dissent in part.

Roberts, C. J., dissenting
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-628
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents  and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN  ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. JOHN KERRY,  SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[June 8, 2015]

     Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.
     Today's decision is a first: Never before has this Court accepted a President's direct defiance of an Act of Congress in the field of foreign affairs.  We have instead stressed that the President's power reaches "its lowest ebb" when he contravenes the express will of Congress, "for what is at stake is the equilibrium established by our constitutional system."  Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 637-638 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring).
     Justice Scalia's principal dissent, which I join in full, refutes the majority's unprecedented holding in detail.  I write separately to underscore the stark nature of the Court's error on a basic question of separation of powers.
     The first principles in this area are firmly established.  The Constitution allocates some foreign policy powers to the Executive, grants some to the Legislature, and enjoins the President to "take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed."  Art. II, §3.  The Executive may disregard "the expressed or implied will of Congress" only if the Constitution grants him a power "at once so conclusive and preclusive" as to "disabl[e] the Congress from acting upon the subject."  Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 637-638 (Jackson, J., concurring).
     Assertions of exclusive and preclusive power leave the Executive "in the least favorable of possible constitutional postures," and such claims have been "scrutinized with caution" throughout this Court's history.  Id., at 640, 638; see Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U. S. 654, 668-669 (1981).  For our first 225 years, no President prevailed when contradicting a statute in the field of foreign affairs.  See Medellín v. Texas, 552 U. S. 491, 524-532 (2008); Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U. S. 557, 590-595, 613-625 (2006); Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 587-589 (majority opinion); Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch 170, 177-179 (1804).
     In this case, the President claims the exclusive and preclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns.  The Court devotes much of its analysis to accepting the Executive's contention.  Ante, at 6-26.  I have serious doubts about that position.  The majority places great weight on the Reception Clause, which directs that the Executive "shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers."  Art. II, §3.  But that provision, framed as an obligation rather than an authorization, appears alongside the duties imposed on the President by Article II, Section 3, not the powers granted to him by Article II, Section 2.  Indeed, the People ratified the Constitution with Alexander Hamilton's assurance that executive reception of ambassadors "is more a matter of dignity than of authority" and "will be without consequence in the administration of the government."  The Federalist No. 69, p. 420 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).  In short, at the time of the founding, "there was no reason to view the reception clause as a source of discretionary authority for the president."  Adler, The President's Recognition Power: Ministerial or Discretionary? 25 Presidential Studies Q. 267, 269 (1995).
     The majority's other asserted textual bases are even more tenuous.  The President does have power to make treaties and appoint ambassadors.  Art. II, §2.  But those authorities are shared with Congress, ibid., so they hardly support an inference that the recognition power is exclusive.
     Precedent and history lend no more weight to the Court's position.  The majority cites dicta suggesting an exclusive executive recognition power, but acknowledges contrary dicta suggesting that the power is shared.  See, e.g., United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 643 (1818) ("the courts of the union must view [a] newly constituted government as it is viewed by the legislative and executive departments of the government of the United States" (emphasis added)).  When the best you can muster is conflicting dicta, precedent can hardly be said to support your side.
     As for history, the majority admits that it too points in both directions.  Some Presidents have claimed an exclusive recognition power, but others have expressed uncertainty about whether such preclusive authority exists.  Those in the skeptical camp include Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, leaders not generally known for their cramped conceptions of Presidential power.  Congress has also asserted its authority over recognition determinations at numerous points in history.  The majority therefore falls short of demonstrating that "Congress has accepted" the President's exclusive recognition power.  Ante, at 26. In any event, we have held that congressional acquiescence is only "pertinent" when the President acts in the absence of express congressional authorization, not when he asserts power to disregard a statute, as the Executive does here.  Medellín, 552 U. S., at 528; see Dames & Moore, 453 U. S., at 678-679.
     In sum, although the President has authority over recognition, I am not convinced that the Constitution provides the "conclusive and preclusive" power required to justify defiance of an express legislative mandate.  Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 638 (Jackson, J., concurring).  As the leading scholar on this issue has concluded, the "text, original understanding, post-ratification history, and structure of the Constitution do not support the . . . expansive claim that this executive power is plenary."  Reinstein, Is the President's Recognition Power Exclusive? 86 Temp. L. Rev. 1, 60 (2013).
     But even if the President does have exclusive recognition power, he still cannot prevail in this case, because the statute at issue does not implicate recognition.  See Zivotofsky v. Clinton, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 1); post, at 5-10 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  The relevant provision, §214(d), simply gives an American citizen born in Jerusalem the option to designate his place of birth as Israel "[f ]or purposes of" passports and other documents.  Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, 116 Stat. 1366.  The State Department itself has explained that "identification"--not recognition--"is the principal reason that U. S. passports require 'place of birth.' "  App. 42.  Congress has not disputed the Executive's assurances that §214(d) does not alter the longstanding United States position on Jerusalem.  And the annals of diplomatic history record no examples of official recognition accomplished via optional passport designation.
     The majority acknowledges both that the "Executive's exclusive power extends no further than his formal recognition determination" and that §214(d) does "not itself constitute a formal act of recognition."  Ante, at 27.  Taken together, these statements come close to a confession of error.  The majority attempts to reconcile its position by reconceiving §214(d) as a "mandate that the Executive contradict his prior recognition determination in an official document issued by the Secretary of State."  Ante, at 27.  But as just noted, neither Congress nor the Executive Branch regards §214(d) as a recognition determination, so it is hard to see how the statute could contradict any such determination.
     At most, the majority worries that there may be a perceived contradiction based on a mistaken understanding of the effect of §214(d), insisting that some "observers interpreted §214 as altering United States policy regarding Jerusalem."  Ante, at 28.  To afford controlling weight to such impressions, however, is essentially to subject a duly enacted statute to an international heckler's veto.
     Moreover, expanding the President's purportedly exclusive recognition power to include authority to avoid potential misunderstandings of legislative enactments proves far too much.  Congress could validly exercise its enumerated powers in countless ways that would create more severe perceived contradictions with Presidential recognition decisions than does §214(d).  If, for example, the President recognized a particular country in opposition to Congress's wishes, Congress could declare war or impose a trade embargo on that country.  A neutral observer might well conclude that these legislative actions had, to put it mildly, created a perceived contradiction with the President's recognition decision.  And yet each of them would undoubtedly be constitutional.  See ante, at 27.  So too would statements by nonlegislative actors that might be seen to contradict the President's recognition positions, such as the declaration in a political party platform that "Jerusalem is and will remain the capital of Israel."  Landler, Pushed by Obama, Democrats Alter Platform Over Jerusalem, N. Y. Times, Sept. 6, 2012, p. A14.
     Ultimately, the only power that could support the President's position is the one the majority purports to reject: the "exclusive authority to conduct diplomatic relations."  Brief for Respondent 18.  The Government offers a single citation for this allegedly exclusive power: United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 319-320 (1936).  But as the majority rightly acknowledges, Curtiss-Wright did not involve a claim that the Executive could contravene a statute; it held only that he could act pursuant to a legislative delegation.  Ante, at 17.
     The expansive language in Curtiss-Wright casting the President as the "sole organ" of the Nation in foreign affairs certainly has attraction for members of the Executive Branch.  The Solicitor General invokes the case no fewer than ten times in his brief.  Brief for Respondent 9, 10, 18, 19, 23, 24, 53, 54.  But our precedents have never accepted such a sweeping understanding of executive power.  See Hamdan, 548 U. S., at 591-592; Dames & Moore, 453 U. S., at 661-662; Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 587 (majority opinion); id., at 635, n. 2 (Jackson, J., concurring); cf. Little, 2 Cranch, at 179 (Marshall, C. J.) ("I confess the first bias of my mind was very strong in favour of . . . the executive . . . [b]ut I have been convinced that I was mistaken.").
     Just a few Terms ago, this Court rejected the President's argument that a broad foreign relations power allowed him to override a state court decision that contradicted U. S. international law obligations.  Medellín, 552 U. S., at 523-532.  If the President's so-called general foreign relations authority does not permit him to countermand a State's lawful action, it surely does not authorize him to disregard an express statutory directive enacted by Congress, which--unlike the States--has extensive foreign relations powers of its own.  Unfortunately, despite its protest to the contrary, the majority today allows the Executive to do just that.
     Resolving the status of Jerusalem may be vexing, but resolving this case is not.  Whatever recognition power the President may have, exclusive or otherwise, is not implicated by §214(d).  It has not been necessary over the past 225 years to definitively resolve a dispute between Congress and the President over the recognition power.  Perhaps we could have waited another 225 years.  But instead the majority strains to reach the question based on the mere possibility that observers overseas might misperceive the significance of the birthplace designation at issue in this case.  And in the process, the Court takes the perilous step--for the first time in our history--of allowing the President to defy an Act of Congress in the field of foreign affairs.
     I respectfully dissent.

Scalia, J., dissenting
 576 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-628
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents  and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN  ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. JOHN KERRY,  SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[June 8, 2015]

     Justice Scalia, with whom The Chief Justice and Justice Alito join, dissenting.
     Before this country declared independence, the law of England entrusted the King with the exclusive care of his kingdom's foreign affairs.  The royal prerogative included the "sole power of sending ambassadors to foreign states, and receiving them at home," the sole authority to "make treaties, leagues, and alliances with foreign states and princes," "the sole prerogative of making war and peace," and the "sole power of raising and regulating fleets and armies."  1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *253, *257, *262.  The People of the United States had other ideas when they organized our Government.  They considered a sound structure of balanced powers essential to the preservation of just government, and international relations formed no exception to that principle.
     The People therefore adopted a Constitution that divides responsibility for the Nation's foreign concerns between the legislative and executive departments.  The Constitution gave the President the "executive Power," authority to send and responsibility to receive ambassadors, power to make treaties, and command of the Army and Navy--though they qualified some of these powers by requiring consent of the Senate.  Art. II, §§1-3.  At the same time, they gave Congress powers over war, foreign commerce, naturalization, and more.  Art. I, §8.  "Fully eleven of the powers that Article I, §8 grants Congress deal in some way with foreign affairs."  L. Tribe, American Constitutional Law, §5-18, p. 965.
     This case arises out of a dispute between the Executive and Legislative Branches about whether the United States should treat Jerusalem as a part of Israel.  The Constitution contemplates that the political branches will make policy about the territorial claims of foreign nations the same way they make policy about other international matters: The President will exercise his powers on the basis of his views, Congress its powers on the basis of its views.  That is just what has happened here.
     I
     The political branches of our Government agree on the real-world fact that Israel controls the city of Jerusalem.  See Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, 109 Stat. 398; Brief for Respondent 3.  They disagree, however, about how official documents should record the birthplace of an American citizen born in Jerusalem.  The Executive does not accept any state's claim to sovereignty over Jerusalem, and it maintains that the birthplace designation "Israel" would clash with this stance of neutrality.  But the National Legislature has enacted a statute that provides: "For purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary [of State] shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel."  Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, §214(d), 116 Stat. 1366.  Menachem Zivotofsky's parents seek enforcement of this statutory right in the issuance of their son's passport and consular report of birth abroad.  They regard their son's birthplace as a part of Israel and insist as "a matter of conscience" that his Israeli nativity "not be erased" from his identity documents.  App. 26.
     Before turning to Presidential power under Article II, I think it well to establish the statute's basis in congressional power under Article I.  Congress's power to "establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," Art. I, §8, cl. 4, enables it to grant American citizenship to someone born abroad.  United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 702-703 (1898).  The naturalization power also enables Congress to furnish the people it makes citizens with papers verifying their citizenship--say a consular report of birth abroad (which certifies citizenship of an American born outside the United States) or a passport (which certifies citizenship for purposes of international travel).  As the Necessary and Proper Clause confirms, every congressional power "carries with it all those incidental powers which are necessary to its complete and effectual execution."  Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 429 (1821).  Even on a miserly understanding of Congress's incidental authority, Congress may make grants of citizenship "effectual" by providing for the issuance of certificates authenticating them.
     One would think that if Congress may grant Zivotofsky a passport and a birth report, it may also require these papers to record his birthplace as "Israel."  The birthplace specification promotes the document's citizenship-authenticating function by identifying the bearer, distinguishing people with similar names but different birthplaces from each other, helping authorities uncover identity fraud, and facilitating retrieval of the Government's citizenship records.  See App. 70.  To be sure, recording Zivotovsky's birthplace as "Jerusalem" rather than "Israel" would fulfill these objectives, but when faced with alternative ways to carry its powers into execution, Congress has the "discretion" to choose the one it deems "most beneficial to the people."  McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819).  It thus has the right to decide that recording birthplaces as "Israel" makes for better foreign policy.  Or that regardless of international politics, a passport or birth report should respect its bearer's conscientious belief that Jerusalem belongs to Israel.
     No doubt congressional discretion in executing legislative powers has its limits; Congress's chosen approach must be not only "necessary" to carrying its powers into execution, but also "proper."  Congress thus may not transcend boundaries upon legislative authority stated or implied elsewhere in the Constitution.  But as we shall see, §214(d) does not transgress any such restriction.
II
     The Court frames this case as a debate about recognition.  Recognition is a sovereign's official acceptance of a status under international law.  A sovereign might recognize a foreign entity as a state, a regime as the other state's government, a place as part of the other state's territory, rebel forces in the other state as a belligerent power, and so on.  2 M. Whiteman, Digest of International Law §1 (1963) (hereinafter Whiteman).  President Truman recognized Israel as a state in 1948, but Presidents have consistently declined to recognize Jerusalem as a part of Israel's (or any other state's) sovereign territory.
     The Court holds that the Constitution makes the President alone responsible for recognition and that §214(d) invades this exclusive power.  I agree that the Constitution empowers the President to extend recognition on behalf of the United States, but I find it a much harder question whether it makes that power exclusive.  The Court tells us that "the weight of historical evidence" supports exclusive executive authority over "the formal determination of recognition."  Ante, at 20.  But even with its attention confined to formal recognition, the Court is forced to admit that "history is not all on one side."  Ibid.  To take a stark example, Congress legislated in 1934 to grant independence to the Philippines, which were then an American colony.  48 Stat. 456.  In the course of doing so, Congress directed the President to "recognize the independence of the Philippine Islands as a separate and self-governing nation" and to "acknowledge the authority and control over the same of the government instituted by the people thereof."  §10, id., at 463.  Constitutional?  And if Congress may control recognition when exercising its power "to dispose of . . . the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States," Art. IV, §3, cl. 2, why not when exercising other enumerated powers?  Neither text nor history nor precedent yields a clear answer to these questions.  Fortunately, I have no need to confront these matters today--nor does the Court--because §214(d) plainly does not concern recognition.
     Recognition is more than an announcement of a policy.  Like the ratification of an international agreement or the termination of a treaty, it is a formal legal act with effects under international law.  It signifies acceptance of an international status, and it makes a commitment to continued acceptance of that status and respect for any attendant rights.  See, e.g., Convention on the Rights and Duties of States, Art. 6, Dec. 26, 1933, 49 Stat. 3100, T. S. No. 881.  "Its legal effect is to create an estoppel.  By granting recognition, [states] debar themselves from challenging in future whatever they have previously acknowledged."  1 G. Schwarzenberger, International Law 127 (3d ed. 1957).  In order to extend recognition, a state must perform an act that unequivocally manifests that intention.  Whiteman §3.  That act can consist of an express conferral of recognition, or one of a handful of acts that by international custom imply recognition--chiefly, entering into a bilateral treaty, and sending or receiving an ambassador.  Ibid.
     To know all this is to realize at once that §214(d) has nothing to do with recognition.  Section 214(d) does not require the Secretary to make a formal declaration about Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem.  And nobody suggests that international custom infers acceptance of sovereignty from the birthplace designation on a passport or birth report, as it does from bilateral treaties or exchanges of ambassadors.  Recognition would preclude the United States (as a matter of international law) from later contesting Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem.  But making a notation in a passport or birth report does not encumber the Republic with any international obligations.  It leaves the Nation free (so far as international law is concerned) to change its mind in the future.  That would be true even if the statute required all passports to list "Israel."  But in fact it requires only those passports to list "Israel" for which the citizen (or his guardian) requests "Israel"; all the rest, under the Secretary's policy, list "Jerusalem."  It is utterly impossible for this deference to private requests to constitute an act that unequivocally manifests an intention to grant recognition.
     Section 214(d) performs a more prosaic function than extending recognition.  Just as foreign countries care about what our Government has to say about their borders, so too American citizens often care about what our Government has to say about their identities.  Cf. Bowen v. Roy, 476 U. S. 693 (1986).  The State Department does not grant or deny recognition in order to accommodate these individuals, but it does make exceptions to its rules about how it records birthplaces.  Although normal protocol requires specifying the bearer's country of birth in his passport, Dept. of State, 7 Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM) §1300, App. D, §1330(a) (2014), the State Department will, if the bearer protests, specify the city of birth instead--so that an Irish nationalist may have his birthplace recorded as "Belfast" rather than "United Kingdom," id., §1380(a).  And although normal protocol requires specifying the country with present sovereignty over the bearer's place of birth, id., §1330(b), a special exception allows a bearer born before 1948 in what was then Palestine to have his birthplace listed as "Palestine," id., §1360(g).  Section 214(d) requires the State Department to make a further accommodation.  Even though the Department normally refuses to specify a country that lacks recognized sovereignty over the bearer's birthplace, it must suspend that policy upon the request of an American citizen born in Jerusalem.  Granting a request to specify "Israel" rather than "Jerusalem" does not recognize Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem, just as granting a request to specify "Belfast" rather than "United Kingdom" does not derecognize the United Kingdom's sovereignty over Northern Ireland.
     The best indication that §214(d) does not concern recognition comes from the State Department's policies concerning Taiwan.  According to the Solicitor General, the United States "acknowledges the Chinese position" that Taiwan is a part of China, but "does not take a position" of its own on that issue.  Brief for Respondent 51-52.  Even so, the State Department has for a long time recorded the birthplace of a citizen born in Taiwan as "China."  It indeed insisted on doing so until Congress passed a law (on which §214(d) was modeled) giving citizens the option to have their birthplaces recorded as "Taiwan."  See §132, 108 Stat. 395, as amended by §1(r), 108 Stat. 4302.  The Solicitor General explains that the designation "China" "involves a geographic description, not an assertion that Taiwan is . . . part of sovereign China."  Brief for Respondent 51-52.  Quite so.  Section 214(d) likewise calls for nothing beyond a "geographic description"; it does not require the Executive even to assert, never mind formally recognize, that Jerusalem is a part of sovereign Israel.  Since birthplace specifications in citizenship documents are matters within Congress's control, Congress may treat Jerusalem as a part of Israel when regulating the recording of birthplaces, even if the President does not do so when extending recognition.  Section 214(d), by the way, expressly directs the Secretary to "record the place of birth as Israel" "[f]or purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport."  (Emphasis added.)  And the law bears the caption, "Record of Place of Birth as Israel for Passport Purposes."  (Emphasis added.)  Finding recognition in this provision is rather like finding admission to the Union in a provision that treats American Samoa as a State for purposes of a federal highway safety program, 23 U. S. C. §401.
III
     The Court complains that §214(d) requires the Secretary of State to issue official documents implying that Jerusalem is a part of Israel; that it appears in a section of the statute bearing the title "United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel"; and that foreign "observers interpreted [it] as altering United States policy regarding Jerusalem."  Ante, at 28.  But these features do not show that §214(d) recognizes Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem.  They show only that the law displays symbolic support for Israel's territorial claim.  That symbolism may have tremendous significance as a matter of international diplomacy, but it makes no difference as a matter of constitutional law.
     Even if the Constitution gives the President sole power to extend recognition, it does not give him sole power to make all decisions relating to foreign disputes over sovereignty.  To the contrary, a fair reading of Article I allows Congress to decide for itself how its laws should handle these controversies.  Read naturally, power to "regulate Commerce with foreign Nations," §8, cl. 3, includes power to regulate imports from Gibraltar as British goods or as Spanish goods.  Read naturally, power to "regulate the Value . . . of foreign Coin," §8, cl. 5, includes power to honor (or not) currency issued by Taiwan.  And so on for the other enumerated powers.  These are not airy hypotheticals.  A trade statute from 1800, for example, provided that "the whole of the island of Hispaniola"--whose status was then in controversy--"shall for purposes of [the] act be considered as a dependency of the French Republic."  §7, 2 Stat. 10.  In 1938, Congress allowed admission of the Vatican City's public records in federal courts, decades before the United States extended formal recognition.  ch. 682, 52 Stat. 1163; Whiteman §68.  The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 grants Taiwan capacity to sue and be sued, even though the United States does not recognize it as a state.  22 U. S. C. §3303(b)(7).  Section 214(d) continues in the same tradition.
     The Constitution likewise does not give the President exclusive power to determine which claims to statehood and territory "are legitimate in the eyes of the United States," ante, at 11.  Congress may express its own views about these matters by declaring war, restricting trade, denying foreign aid, and much else besides.  To take just one example, in 1991, Congress responded to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait by enacting a resolution authorizing use of military force.  105 Stat. 3.  No doubt the resolution reflected Congress's views about the legitimacy of Iraq's territorial claim.  The preamble referred to Iraq's "illegal occupation" and stated that "the international community has demanded . . . that Kuwait's independence and legitimate government be restored."  Ibid.  These statements are far more categorical than the caption "United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel."  Does it follow that the authorization of the use of military force invaded the President's exclusive powers?  Or that it would have done so had the President recognized Iraqi sovereignty over Kuwait?
     History does not even support an exclusive Presidential power to make what the Court calls "formal statements" about "the legitimacy of a state or government and its territorial bounds," ante, at 29.  For a long time, the Houses of Congress have made formal statements announcing their own positions on these issues, again without provoking constitutional objections.  A recent resolution expressed the House of Representatives' "strong support for the legitimate, democratically-elected Government of Lebanon" and condemned an "illegitimate" and "unjustifiable" insurrection by "the terrorist group Hizballah."  H. Res. 1194, 110th Cong, 2d Sess., 1, 4 (2008).  An earlier enactment declared "the sense of the Congress that . . . Tibet . . . is an occupied country under the established principles of international law" and that "Tibet's true representatives are the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan Government in exile."  §355, 105 Stat. 713 (1991).  After Texas won independence from Mexico, the Senate resolved that "the State of Texas having established and maintained an independent Government, . . . it is expedient and proper . . . that the independent political existence of the said State be acknowledged by the Government of the United States."  Cong. Globe, 24th Cong., 2d Sess., 83 (1837); see id., at 270.
     In the final analysis, the Constitution may well deny Congress power to recognize--the power to make an international commitment accepting a foreign entity as a state, a regime as its government, a place as a part of its territory, and so on.  But whatever else §214(d) may do, it plainly does not make (or require the President to make) a commitment accepting Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem.
IV
     The Court does not try to argue that §214(d) extends recognition; nor does it try to argue that the President holds the exclusive power to make all nonrecognition decisions relating to the status of Jerusalem.  As just shown, these arguments would be impossible to make with a straight face.
     The Court instead announces a rule that is blatantly gerrymandered to the facts of this case.  It concludes that, in addition to the exclusive power to make the "formal recognition determination," the President holds an ancillary exclusive power "to control . . . formal statements by the Executive Branch acknowledging the legitimacy of a state or government and its territorial bounds."  Ante, at 29.  It follows, the Court explains, that Congress may not "requir[e] the President to contradict an earlier recognition determination in an official document issued by the Executive Branch."  Ibid.  So requiring imports from Jerusalem to be taxed like goods from Israel is fine, but requiring Customs to issue an official invoice to that effect is not?  Nonsense.
     Recognition is a type of legal act, not a type of statement.  It is a leap worthy of the Mad Hatter to go from exclusive authority over making legal commitments about sovereignty to exclusive authority over making statements or issuing documents about national borders.  The Court may as well jump from power over issuing declaratory judgments to a monopoly on writing law-review articles.
     No consistent or coherent theory supports the Court's decision.  At times, the Court seems concerned with the possibility of congressional interference with the President's ability to extend or withhold legal recognition.  The Court concedes, as it must, that the notation required by §214(d) "would not itself constitute a formal act of recognition."  Ante, at 27.  It still frets, however, that Congress could try to regulate the President's "statements" in a way that "override[s] the President's recognition determination."  Ibid.  But "[t]he circumstance, that . . . [a] power may be abused, is no answer.  All powers may be abused."  2 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §921, p. 386 (1833).  What matters is whether this law interferes with the President's ability to withhold recognition.  It would be comical to claim that it does.  The Court identifies no reason to believe that the United States--or indeed any other country--uses the place-of-birth field in passports and birth reports as a forum for performing the act of recognition.  That is why nobody thinks the United States withdraws recognition from Canada when it accommodates a Quebec nationalist's request to have his birthplace recorded as "Montreal."
     To the extent doubts linger about whether the United States recognizes Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem, §214(d) leaves the President free to dispel them by issuing a disclaimer of intent to recognize.  A disclaimer always suffices to prevent an act from effecting recognition.  Restatement (Second) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States §104(1) (1962).  Recall that an earlier law grants citizens born in Taiwan the right to have their birthplaces recorded as "Taiwan."  The State Department has complied with the law, but states in its Foreign Affairs Manual: "The United States does not officially recognize Taiwan as a 'state' or 'country,' although passport issuing officers may enter 'Taiwan' as a place of birth."  7 FAM §1300, App. D, §1340(d)(6).  Nothing stops a similar disclaimer here.
     At other times, the Court seems concerned with Congress's failure to give effect to a recognition decision that the President has already made.  The Court protests, for instance, that §214(d) "directly contradicts" the President's refusal to recognize Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem.  Ante, at 27.  But even if the Constitution empowers the President alone to extend recognition, it nowhere obliges Congress to align its laws with the President's recognition decisions.  Because the President and Congress are "perfectly co-ordinate by the terms of their common commission," The Federalist No. 49, p. 314 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (Madison), the President's use of the recognition power does not constrain Congress's use of its legislative powers.
     Congress has legislated without regard to recognition for a long time and in a range of settings.  For example, responding in 1817 and 1818 to revolutions in Latin America, Congress amended federal neutrality laws--which originally prohibited private military action for or against recognized states--to prohibit private hostilities against unrecognized states too.  ch. 58, 3 Stat. 370; ch. 88, 3 Stat. 447; see The Three Friends, 166 U. S. 1, 52-59 (1897).  Legislation from 90 years ago provided for the revision of national immigration quotas upon one country's surrender of territory to another, even if "the transfer . . . has not been recognized by the United States."  §12(c), 43 Stat. 161 (1924).  Federal law today prohibits murdering a foreign government's officials, 18 U. S. C. §1116, counterfeiting a foreign government's bonds, §478, and using American vessels to smuggle goods in violation of a foreign government's laws, §546--all "irrespective of recognition by the United States," §§11, 1116.  Just as Congress may legislate independently of recognition in all of those areas, so too may it legislate independently of recognition when regulating the recording of birthplaces.
     The Court elsewhere objects that §214(d) interferes with the autonomy and unity of the Executive Branch, setting the branch against itself.  The Court suggests, for instance, that the law prevents the President from maintaining his neutrality about Jerusalem in "his and his agent's statements."  Ante, at 26.  That is of no constitutional significance.  As just shown, Congress has power to legislate without regard to recognition, and where Congress has the power to legislate, the President has a duty to "take Care" that its legislation "be faithfully executed," Art. II, §3.  It is likewise "the duty of the secretary of state to conform to the law"; where Congress imposes a responsibility on him, "he is so far the officer of the law; is amenable to the laws for his conduct; and cannot at his discretion sport away the vested rights of others."  Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 158, 166 (1803).  The Executive's involvement in carrying out this law does not affect its constitutionality; the Executive carries out every law.
     The Court's error could be made more apparent by applying its reasoning to the President's power "to make Treaties," Art. II, §2, cl. 2.  There is no question that Congress may, if it wishes, pass laws that openly flout treaties made by the President.  Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 597 (1884).  Would anyone have dreamt that the President may refuse to carry out such laws--or, to bring the point closer to home, refuse to execute federal courts' judgments under such laws--so that the Executive may "speak with one voice" about the country's international obligations?  To ask is to answer.  Today's holding puts the implied power to recognize territorial claims (which the Court infers from the power to recognize states, which it infers from the responsibility to receive ambassadors) on a higher footing than the express power to make treaties.  And this, even though the Federalist describes the making of treaties as a "delicate and important prerogative," but the reception of ambassadors as "more a matter of dignity than of authority," "a circumstance which will be without consequence in the administration of the government."  The Federalist No. 69, p. 420 (Hamilton).
     In the end, the Court's decision does not rest on text or history or precedent.  It instead comes down to "functional considerations"--principally the Court's perception that the Nation "must speak with one voice" about the status of Jerusalem.  Ante, at 11 (ellipsis and internal quotation marks omitted).  The vices of this mode of analysis go beyond mere lack of footing in the Constitution.  Functionalism of the sort the Court practices today will systematically favor the unitary President over the plural Congress in disputes involving foreign affairs.  It is possible that this approach will make for more effective foreign policy, perhaps as effective as that of a monarchy.  It is certain that, in the long run, it will erode the structure of separated powers that the People established for the protection of their liberty.
V
      Justice Thomas's concurrence deems §214(d) constitutional to the extent it regulates birth reports, but unconstitutional to the extent it regulates passports.  Ante, at 10 (opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part).  The concurrence finds no congressional power that would extend to the issuance or contents of passports.  Including the power to regulate foreign commerce--even though passports facilitate the transportation of passengers, "a part of our commerce with foreign nations," Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 270 (1876). Including the power over naturalization--even though passports issued to citizens, like birth reports, "have the same force and effect as proof of United States citizenship as certificates of naturalization," 22 U. S. C. §2705.  Including the power to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee that "[a]ll persons born or naturalized in the United States . . . are citizens of the United States"--even though a passport provides evidence of citizenship and so helps enforce this guarantee abroad.  Including the power to exclude persons from the territory of the United States, see Art. I, §9, cl. 1--even though passports are the principal means of identifying citizens entitled to entry.  Including the powers under which Congress has restricted the ability of various people to leave the country (fugitives from justice, for example, see 18 U. S. C. §1073)--even though passports are the principal means of controlling exit.  Including the power to "make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States," Art. IV, §3, cl. 2--even though "[a] passport remains at all times the property of the United States," 7 FAM §1317 (2013).  The concurrence's stingy interpretation of the enumerated powers forgets that the Constitution does not "partake of the prolixity of a legal code," that "only its great outlines [are] marked, its important objects designated, and the minor ingredients which compose those objects [left to] be deduced from the nature of the objects themselves."  McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 407.  It forgets, in other words, "that it is a constitution we are expounding."  Ibid.
     Defending Presidential primacy over passports, the concurrence says that the royal prerogative in England included the power to issue and control travel documents akin to the modern passport.  Ante, at 10-11.  Perhaps so, but that power was assuredly not exclusive.  The Aliens Act 1793, for example, enacted almost contemporaneously with our Constitution, required an alien traveling within England to obtain "a passport from [a] mayor or . . . [a] justice of [the] peace," "in which passport shall be expressed the name and rank, occupation or description, of such alien."  33 Geo. III, ch. 4, §8, in 39 Eng. Stat. at Large 12.  The Aliens Act 1798 prohibited aliens from leaving the country without "a passport . . . first obtained from one of his Majesty's principal secretaries of state," and instructed customs officers to mark, sign, and date passports before allowing their bearers to depart.  38 Geo. III, ch. 50, §8, in 41 Eng. Stat. at Large 684.  These and similar laws discredit any claim that, in the "Anglo-American legal tradition," travel documents have "consistently been issued and controlled by the body exercising executive power," ante, at 10 (emphasis added).
     Returning to this side of the Atlantic, the concurrence says that passports have a "historical pedigree uniquely associated with the President."  Ante, at 28.  This statement overlooks the reality that, until Congress restricted the issuance of passports to the State Department in 1856, "passports were also issued by governors, mayors, and even . . . notaries public."  Assn. of the Bar of the City of New York, Special Committee to Study Passport Procedures, Freedom to Travel 6 (1958).  To be sure, early Presidents granted passports without express congressional authorization.  Ante, at 11-12.  But this point establishes Presidential authority over passports in the face of congressional silence, not Presidential authority in the face of congressional opposition.  Early in the Republic's history, Congress made it a crime for a consul to "grant a passport or other paper certifying that any alien, knowing him or her to be such, is a citizen of the United States."  §8, 2 Stat. 205 (1803).  Closer to the Civil War, Congress expressly authorized the granting of passports, regulated passport fees, and prohibited the issuance of passports to foreign citizens.  §23, 11 Stat. 60-61 (1856).  Since then, Congress has made laws about eligibility to receive passports, the duration for which passports remain valid, and even the type of paper used to manufacture passports.  22 U. S. C. §§212, 217a; §617(b), 102 Stat. 1755.  (The concurrence makes no attempt to explain how these laws were supported by congressional powers other than those it rejects in the present case.)  This Court has held that the President may not curtail a citizen's travel by withholding a passport, except on grounds approved by Congress.  Kent v. Dulles, 357 U. S. 116, 129 (1958).  History and precedent thus refute any suggestion that the Constitution disables Congress from regulating the President's issuance and formulation of passports.
     The concurrence adds that a passport "contains [a] communication directed at a foreign power."  Ante, at 28.  The "communication" in question is a message that traditionally appears in each passport (though no statute, to my knowledge, expressly requires its inclusion): "The Secretary of State of the United States of America hereby requests all whom it may concern to permit the citizen/national of the United States named herein to pass without delay or hindrance and in case of need to give all lawful aid and protection."  App. 22.  I leave it to the reader to judge whether a request to "all whom it may concern" qualifies as a "communication directed at a foreign power."  Even if it does, its presence does not affect §214(d)'s constitutionality.  Requesting protection is only a "subordinate" function of a passport.  Kent, supra, at 129.  This subordinate function has never been thought to invalidate other laws regulating the contents of passports; why then would it invalidate this one?
     That brings me, in analytic crescendo, to the concurrence's suggestion that even if Congress's enumerated powers otherwise encompass §214(d), and even if the President's power to regulate the contents of passports is not exclusive, the law might still violate the Constitution, because it "conflict[s]" with the President's passport policy.  Ante, at 24.  It turns the Constitution upside-down to suggest that in areas of shared authority, it is the executive policy that preempts the law, rather than the other way around.  Congress may make laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution the President's powers, Art. I, §8, cl. 18, but the President must "take Care" that Congress's legislation "be faithfully executed," Art. II, §3.  And Acts of Congress made in pursuance of the Constitution are the "supreme Law of the Land"; acts of the President (apart from treaties) are not.  Art. VI, cl. 2.  That is why Chief Justice Marshall was right to think that a law prohibiting the seizure of foreign ships trumped a military order requiring it.  Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch 170, 178-179 (1804).  It is why Justice Jackson was right to think that a President who "takes measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress" may "rely only upon his own constitutional powers minus any constitutional powers of Congress over the matter."  Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 637 (1952) (concurring opinion) (emphasis added).  And it is why Justice Thomas is wrong to think that even if §214(d) operates in a field of shared authority the President might still prevail.
     Whereas the Court's analysis threatens congressional power over foreign affairs with gradual erosion, the concurrence's approach shatters it in one stroke.  The combination of (a) the concurrence's assertion of broad, unenumerated "residual powers" in the President, see ante, at 2-9; (b) its parsimonious interpretation of Congress's enumerated powers, see ante, at 13-17; and (c) its even more parsimonious interpretation of Congress's authority to enact laws "necessary and proper for carrying into Execution" the President's executive powers, see ante, at 17-20; produces (d) a presidency more reminiscent of George III than George Washington.
*  *  *
     International disputes about statehood and territory are neither rare nor obscure.  Leading foreign debates during the 19th century concerned how the United States should respond to revolutions in Latin America, Texas, Mexico, Hawaii, Cuba.  During the 20th century, attitudes toward Communist governments in Russia and China became conspicuous subjects of agitation.  Disagreements about Taiwan, Kashmir, and Crimea remain prominent today.  A President empowered to decide all questions relating to these matters, immune from laws embodying congressional disagreement with his position, would have uncontrolled mastery of a vast share of the Nation's foreign affairs.
     That is not the chief magistrate under which the American People agreed to live when they adopted the national charter.  They believed that "[t]he accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands, . . . may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny."  The Federalist No. 47, p. 301 (Madison).  For this reason, they did not entrust either the President or Congress with sole power to adopt uncontradictable policies about any subject--foreign-sovereignty disputes included.  They instead gave each political department its own powers, and with that the freedom to contradict the other's policies.  Under the Constitution they approved, Congress may require Zivotofsky's passport and birth report to record his birthplace as Israel, even if that requirement clashes with the President's preference for neutrality about the status of Jerusalem.
     I dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 This discussion of the allocation of federal foreign affairs powers should not be understood to address the allocation of foreign affairs powers between the Federal Government and the States.  The extent to which the States retained foreign affairs powers following ratification is not before us today.
Footnote 2 The majority asserts that Zivotofsky "waived any argument that his consular report of birth abroad should be treated differently than his passport" in the court below and in this Court because he "fail[ed] to differentiate between the two documents."  Ante, at 5.  But at every stage of the proceedings, Zivotofsky has pressed his claim that he is entitled to have his place of birth listed as "Israel" on both his passport and his consular report of birth abroad, and the consular report issue is fairly included in the question presented.  Parties cannot waive the correct interpretation of the law simply by failing to invoke it.  See, e.g., EEOC v. FLRA, 476 U. S. 19, 23 (1986) (per curiam).  That the parties have argued the case as if the same analysis should apply to both documents does not relieve this Court of its responsibility to interpret the law correctly.
Footnote 3 Until 1978, passports were not generally required to enter or exit the country except during wartime.  §707, 92 Stat. 993.
Footnote 4 Justice Scalia, in his dissent, faults me for failing to identify the enumerated power under which these laws were permissible, but the question presented in this case is whether §214(d) is a constitutional exercise of Congress' power, and that is the question I address.
Footnote 5 Because §214(d) is not proper, I need not resolve whether such a law could be understood to "carry into execution" the President's power.
Footnote 6 This principle is not necessarily inconsistent with the second mechanism for evaluating congressional action under the Necessary and Proper Clause discussed above.  Although that mechanism would tie the propriety of congressional action to the objection (or nonobjection) of another branch, the point of that tying feature is to determine whether, in fact, Congress has encroached upon another branch, not whether such encroachment is acceptable.
Footnote 7 The First Congress passed a law recognizing citizenship at birth for children born abroad to U. S. citizens.  Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, §1, 1 Stat. 104.  An 1802 amendment to the provision rendered the availability of this citizenship uncertain.  Binney, The Alienigenae of the United States, 2 Am. L. Reg. 193, 193 (1854).  But Congress acted to clarify the availability of such citizenship in 1855, Act of Feb. 10, 1855, ch. 71, 10 Stat. 604, and it continues to exist to this day, see Immigration and Nationality Act, §301(a), 66 Stat. 235.
Footnote 8 As the issue is not presented, I need not decide how a direct conflict between action pursuant to an enumerated power of Congress and action pursuant to the residual foreign affairs power of the President should be resolved.
Footnote 9 I assume, as the majority does, that the recognition power conferred on the President by the Constitution is the power to accomplish the act of recognition as that act is defined under international law.  It is possible, of course, that the Framers had a fixed understanding of the act of recognition that is at odds with the definition of that act under international law.  But the majority does not make that argument, nor does the majority even specifically address how consular reports of birth abroad are related to recognition.  Lacking any evidence that the modern practice of recognition deviates in any relevant way from the historical practice, or that the original understanding of the recognition power was something other than the power to take part in that practice, I proceed on the same assumption as the majority.
Footnote 10 Scholars have long debated the extent to which official recognition by the sovereign states that make up the international community is necessary to bring a new "state" into the international community and thereby subject it to international law.  Oppenheim §39, at 128-129.  Resolving this debate is not necessary to resolve the issue at hand, so I describe the modern view of recognition without endorsing it.
Footnote 11 The analysis might look different if §214(d) required the President to list as a "place of birth" a country that the United States has never officially recognized.  That is not the case here.





United States Supreme Court
MELLOULI v. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2015)
No. 13-1034
Argued: January 14, 2015    Decided: June 1, 2015


Petitioner Moones Mellouli, a lawful permanent resident, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor offense under Kansas law, the possession of drug paraphernalia "to . . . store [or] conceal . . . a controlled substance."  Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5709(b)(2).  The sole "paraphernalia" Mellouli was charged with possessing was a sock in which he had placed four unidentified orange tablets.  Citing Mellouli's misdemeanor conviction, an Immigration Judge ordered him deported under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), which authorizes the deportation (removal) of an alien "convicted of a violation of . . . any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of Title 21)."  Section 802, in turn, limits the term "controlled substance" to a "drug or other substance" included in one of five federal schedules.  21 U. S. C. §802(6).  Kansas defines "controlled substance" as any drug included on its own schedules, without reference to §802.  Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5701(a).  At the time of Mellouli's conviction, Kansas' schedules included at least nine substances not on the federal lists.  The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) affirmed Mellouli's deportation order, and the Eighth Circuit denied his petition for review.
Held: Mellouli's Kansas conviction for concealing unnamed pills in his sock did not trigger removal under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  Pp. 5-14.
     (a) The categorical approach historically taken in determining whether a state conviction renders an alien removable looks to the statutory definition of the offense of conviction, not to the particulars of the alien's conduct.  The state conviction triggers removal only if, by definition, the underlying crime falls within a category of removable offenses defined by federal law.  The BIA has long applied the categorical approach to assess whether a state drug conviction triggers removal under successive versions of what is now §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  Matter of Paulus, 11 I. & N. Dec. 274, is illustrative.  At the time the BIA decided Paulus, California controlled certain "narcotics" not listed as "narcotic drugs" under federal law.  Id., at 275.  The BIA concluded that an alien's California conviction for offering to sell an unidentified "narcotic" was not a deportable offense, for it was possible that the conviction involved a substance controlled only under California, not federal, law.  Under the Paulus analysis, Mellouli would not be deportable.  The state law involved in Mellouli's conviction, like the California statute in Paulus, was not confined to federally controlled substances; it also included substances controlled only under state, not federal, law.
     The BIA, however, announced and applied a different approach to drug-paraphernalia offenses (as distinguished from drug possession and distribution offenses) in Matter of Martinez Espinoza, 25 I. & N. Dec. 118.  There, the BIA ranked paraphernalia statutes as relating to "the drug trade in general," reasoning that a paraphernalia conviction "relates to" any and all controlled substances, whether or not federally listed, with which the paraphernalia can be used.  Id., at 120-121.  Under this reasoning, there is no need to show that the type of controlled substance involved in a paraphernalia conviction is one defined in §802.
     The BIA's disparate approach to drug possession and distribution offenses and paraphernalia possession offenses finds no home in §1227(a)(2)(B)(i)'s text and "leads to consequences Congress could not have intended."  Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. ___, ___.  That approach has the anomalous result of treating less grave paraphernalia possession misdemeanors more harshly than drug possession and distribution offenses.  The incongruous upshot is that an alien is not removable for possessing a substance controlled only under Kansas law, but he is removable for using a sock to contain that substance.  Because it makes scant sense, the BIA's interpretation is owed no deference under the doctrine described in Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843.  Pp. 5-11.
     (b) The Government's interpretation of the statute is similarly flawed.  The Government argues that aliens who commit any drug crime, not just paraphernalia offenses, in States whose drug schedules substantially overlap the federal schedules are deportable, for "state statutes that criminalize hundreds of federally controlled drugs and a handful of similar substances, are laws 'relating to' federally controlled substances."  Brief for Respondent 17.  While the words "relating to" are broad, the Government's reading stretches the construction of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) to the breaking point, reaching state-court convictions, like Mellouli's, in which "[no] controlled substance (as defined in [§802])" figures as an element of the offense.  Construction of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) must be faithful to the text, which limits the meaning of "controlled substance," for removal purposes, to the substances controlled under §802.  Accordingly, to trigger removal under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), the Government must connect an element of the alien's conviction to a drug "defined in [§802]."  Pp. 11-14.
719 F. 3d 995, reversed.
     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Alito, J., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 575 U. S. ____ (2015)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 13-1034
MOONES MELLOULI, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E.LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit
[June 1, 2015]

     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
     This case requires us to decide how immigration judges should apply a deportation (removal) provision, defined with reference to federal drug laws, to an alien convicted of a state drug-paraphernalia misdemeanor.
     Lawful permanent resident Moones Mellouli, in 2010, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor offense under Kansas law, the possession of drug paraphernalia to "store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce a controlled substance into the human body."  Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5709(b)(2) (2013 Cum. Supp.).  The sole "paraphernalia" Mellouli was charged with possessing was a sock in which he had placed four orange tablets.  The criminal charge and plea agreement did not identify the controlled substance involved, but Mellouli had acknowledged, prior to the charge and plea, that the tablets were Adderall.  Mellouli was sentenced to a suspended term of 359 days and 12 months' probation.
     In February 2012, several months after Mellouli successfully completed probation, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers arrested him as deportable under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) based on his Kansas misdemeanor conviction.  Section 1227(a)(2)(B)(i) authorizes the removal of an alien "convicted of a violation of . . . any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of Title 21)."  We hold that Mellouli's Kansas conviction for concealing unnamed pills in his sock did not trigger removal under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  The drug-paraphernalia possession law under which he was convicted, Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5709(b), by definition, related to a controlled substance: The Kansas statute made it unlawful "to use or possess with intent to use any drug paraphernalia to . . . store [or] conceal . . . a controlled substance."  But it was immaterial under that law whether the substance was defined in 21 U. S. C. §802.  Nor did the State charge, or seek to prove, that Mellouli possessed a substance on the §802 schedules.  Federal law (§1227(a)(2)(B)(i)), therefore, did not authorize Mellouli's removal.  
I
A
     This case involves the interplay between several federal and state statutes.  Section 1227(a)(2)(B)(i), a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 66 Stat. 163, as amended, authorizes the removal of an alien "convicted of a violation of . . . any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of Title 21), other than a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana."  Section 1227(a)(2)(B)(i) incorporates 21 U. S. C. §802, which limits the term "controlled substance" to a "drug or other substance" included in one of five federal schedules.  §802(6).
     The statute defining the offense to which Mellouli pleaded guilty, Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5709(b), proscribes "possess[ion] with intent to use any drug paraphernalia to," among other things, "store" or "conceal" a "controlled substance."  Kansas defines "controlled substance" as any drug included on its own schedules, and makes no reference to §802 or any other federal law.  §21-5701(a).1  At the time of Mellouli's conviction, Kansas' schedules included at least nine substances not included in the federal lists.  See §65-4105(d)(30), (31), (33), (34), (36) (2010 Cum. Supp.); §65-4111(g) (2002); §65-4113(d)(1), (e), (f ) (2010 Cum. Supp.); see also Brief for Respondent 9, n. 2.
     The question presented is whether a Kansas conviction for using drug paraphernalia to store or conceal a controlled substance, §21-5709(b), subjects an alien to deportation under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), which applies to an alien "convicted of a violation of [a state law] relating to a controlled substance (as defined in [§802])."
B
     Mellouli, a citizen of Tunisia, entered the United States on a student visa in 2004.  He attended U. S. universities, earning a bachelor of arts degree, magna cum laude, as well as master's degrees in applied mathematics and economics.  After completing his education, Mellouli worked as an actuary and taught mathematics at the University of Missouri-Columbia.  In 2009, he became a conditional permanent resident and, in 2011, a lawful permanent resident.  Since December 2011, Mellouli has been engaged to be married to a U. S. citizen.
     In 2010, Mellouli was arrested for driving under the influence and driving with a suspended license.  During a postarrest search in a Kansas detention facility, deputies discovered four orange tablets hidden in Mellouli's sock.  According to a probable-cause affidavit submitted in the state prosecution, Mellouli acknowledged that the tablets were Adderall and that he did not have a prescription for the drugs.  Adderall, the brand name of an amphetamine-based drug typically prescribed to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder,2 is a controlled substance under both federal and Kansas law.  See 21 CFR §1308.12(d)(1) (2014) (listing "amphetamine" and its "salts" and "isomers"); Kan. Stat. Ann. §65-4107(d)(1) (2013 Cum. Supp.) (same).  Based on the probable-cause affidavit, a criminal complaint was filed charging Mellouli with trafficking contraband in jail.
     Ultimately, Mellouli was charged with only the lesser offense of possessing drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor.  The amended complaint alleged that Mellouli had "use[d] or possess[ed] with intent to use drug paraphernalia, to-wit: a sock, to store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance."  App. 23.  The complaint did not identify the substance contained in the sock.  Mellouli pleaded guilty to the paraphernalia possession charge; he also pleaded guilty to driving under the influence.  For both offenses, Mellouli was sentenced to a suspended term of 359 days and 12 months' probation.
     In February 2012, several months after Mellouli successfully completed probation, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers arrested him as deportable under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) based on his paraphernalia possession conviction.  An Immigration Judge ordered Mellouli deported, and the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) affirmed the order.  Mellouli was deported in 2012.
     Under federal law, Mellouli's concealment of controlled-substance tablets in his sock would not have qualified as a drug-paraphernalia offense.  Federal law criminalizes the sale of or commerce in drug paraphernalia, but possession alone is not criminalized at all.  See 21 U. S. C. §863(a)-(b).  Nor does federal law define drug paraphernalia to include common household or ready-to-wear items like socks; rather, it defines paraphernalia as any "equipment, product, or material" which is "primarily intended or designed for use" in connection with various drug-related activities.  §863(d) (emphasis added).  In 19 States as well, the conduct for which Mellouli was convicted--use of a sock to conceal a controlled substance--is not a criminal offense.  Brief for National Immigrant Justice Center et al. as Amici Curiae 7.  At most, it is a low-level infraction, often not attended by a right to counsel.  Id., at 9-11.
     The Eighth Circuit denied Mellouli's petition for review.  719 F. 3d 995 (2013). We granted certiorari, 573 U. S. ___ (2014), and now reverse the judgment of the Eighth Circuit.
II
     We address first the rationale offered by the BIA and affirmed by the Eighth Circuit, which differentiates paraphernalia offenses from possession and distribution offenses.  Essential background, in evaluating the rationale shared by the BIA and the Eighth Circuit, is the categorical approach historically taken in determining whether a state conviction renders an alien removable under the immigration statute.3  Because Congress predicated de-portation "on convictions, not conduct," the approach looks to the statutory definition of the offense of conviction, not to the particulars of an alien's behavior.  Das, The Immigration Penalties of Criminal Convictions: Resurrecting Categorical Analysis in Immigration Law, 86 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 1669, 1701, 1746 (2011).  The state conviction triggers removal only if, by definition, the underlying crime falls within a category of removable offenses defined by federal law.  Ibid.  An alien's actual conduct is irrelevant to the inquiry, as the adjudicator must "presume that the conviction rested upon nothing more than the least of the acts criminalized" under the state statute.  Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 5) (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).4
     The categorical approach "has a long pedigree in our Nation's immigration law."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  As early as 1913, courts examining the federal immigration statute concluded that Congress, by tying immigration penalties to convictions, intended to "limi[t] the immigration adjudicator's assessment of a past criminal conviction to a legal analysis of the statutory offense," and to disallow "[examination] of the facts underlying the crime."  Das, supra, at 1688, 1690.
     Rooted in Congress' specification of conviction, not conduct, as the trigger for immigration consequences, the categorical approach is suited to the realities of the system.  Asking immigration judges in each case to determine the circumstances underlying a state conviction would burden a system in which "large numbers of cases [are resolved by] immigration judges and front-line immigration officers, often years after the convictions."  Koh, The Whole Better than the Sum: A Case for the Categorical Approach to Determining the Immigration Consequences of Crime, 26 Geo. Immigration L. J. 257, 295 (2012).  By focusing on the legal question of what a conviction necessarily established, the categorical approach ordinarily works to promote efficiency, fairness, and predictability in the administration of immigration law.  See id., at 295-310; Das, supra, at 1725-1742.  In particular, the approach enables aliens "to anticipate the immigration consequences of guilty pleas in criminal court," and to enter " 'safe harbor' guilty pleas [that] do not expose the [alien defendant] to the risk of immigration sanctions."  Koh, supra, at 307.  See Das, supra, at 1737-1738.5
     The categorical approach has been applied routinely to assess whether a state drug conviction triggers removal under the immigration statute.  As originally enacted, the removal statute specifically listed covered offenses and covered substances.  It made deportable, for example, any alien convicted of "import[ing]," "buy[ing]," or "sell[ing]" any "narcotic drug," defined as "opium, coca leaves, cocaine, or any salt, derivative, or preparation of opium or coca leaves, or cocaine."  Ch. 202, 42 Stat. 596-597.  Over time, Congress amended the statute to include additional offenses and additional narcotic drugs.6  Ultimately, the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 replaced the increasingly long list of controlled substances with the now familiar reference to "a controlled substance (as defined in [§802])."  See §1751, 100 Stat. 3207-47.  In interpreting successive versions of the removal statute, the BIA inquired whether the state statute under which the alien was convicted covered federally controlled substances and not others.7
     Matter of Paulus, 11 I. & N. Dec. 274 (1965), is illustrative.  At the time the BIA decided Paulus, the immigration statute made deportable any alien who had been "convicted of a violation of . . . any law or regulation relating to the illicit possession of or traffic in narcotic drugs or marihuana."  Id., at 275.  California controlled certain "narcotics," such as peyote, not listed as "narcotic drugs" under federal law.  Ibid.  The BIA concluded that an alien's California conviction for offering to sell an unidentified "narcotic" was not a deportable offense, for it was possible that the conviction involved a substance, such as peyote, controlled only under California law.  Id., at 275-276. Because the alien's conviction was not necessarily predicated upon a federally controlled "narcotic drug," the BIA concluded that the conviction did not establish the alien's deportability.  Id., at 276.
     Under the Paulus analysis, adhered to as recently as 2014 in Matter of Ferreira, 26 I. & N. Dec. 415 (BIA 2014),8 Mellouli would not be deportable.  Mellouli pleaded guilty to concealing unnamed pills in his sock.  At the time of Mellouli's conviction, Kansas' schedules of controlled substances included at least nine substances--e.g., salvia and jimson weed--not defined in §802.  See Kan. Stat. Ann. §65-4105(d)(30), (31).  The state law involved in Mellouli's conviction, therefore, like the California statute in Paulus, was not confined to federally controlled substances; it required no proof by the prosecutor that Mellouli used his sock to conceal a substance listed under §802, as opposed to a substance controlled only under Kansas law.  Under the categorical approach applied in Paulus, Mellouli's drug-paraphernalia conviction does not render him deportable.  In short, the state law under which he was charged categorically "relat[ed] to a controlled substance," but was not limited to substances "defined in [§802]."9
     The BIA, however, announced and applied a different approach to drug-paraphernalia offenses (as distinguished from drug possession and distribution offenses) in Matter of Martinez Espinoza, 25 I. & N. Dec. 118 (2009).  There, the BIA ranked paraphernalia statutes as relating to "the drug trade in general."  Id., at 121.  The BIA rejected the argument that a paraphernalia conviction should not count at all because it targeted implements, not controlled substances.  Id., at 120.  It then reasoned that a paraphernalia conviction "relates to" any and all controlled substances, whether or not federally listed, with which the paraphernalia can be used.  Id., at 121.  Under this reasoning, there is no need to show that the type of controlled substance involved in a paraphernalia conviction is one defined in §802.
     The Immigration Judge in this case relied upon Martinez Espinoza in ordering Mellouli's removal, quoting that decision for the proposition that " 'the requirement of a correspondence between the Federal and State controlled substance schedules, embraced by Matter of Paulus . . . has never been extended' " to paraphernalia offenses.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 32 (quoting Martinez Espinoza, 25 I. & N. Dec., at 121).  The BIA affirmed, reasoning that Mellouli's conviction for possession of drug paraphernalia "involves drug trade in general and, thus, is covered under [§1227(a)(2)(B)(i)]."  App. to Pet. for Cert. 18.  Denying Mellouli's petition for review, the Eighth Circuit deferred to the BIA's decision in Martinez Espinoza, and held that a Kansas paraphernalia conviction " 'relates to' a federal controlled substance because it is a crime . . . 'associated with the drug trade in general.' "  719 F. 3d, at 1000.
     The disparate approach to state drug convictions, devised by the BIA and applied by the Eighth Circuit, finds no home in the text of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  The approach, moreover, "leads to consequences Congress could not have intended."  Moncrieffe, 569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).  Statutes should be interpreted "as a symmetrical and coherent regulatory scheme."  FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U. S. 120, 133 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The BIA, however, has adopted conflicting positions on the meaning of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), distinguishing drug possession and distribution offenses from offenses involving the drug trade in general, with the anomalous result that minor paraphernalia possession offenses are treated more harshly than drug possession and distribution offenses.  Drug possession and distribution convictions trigger removal only if they necessarily involve a federally controlled substance, see Paulus, 11 I. & N. Dec. 274, while convictions for paraphernalia possession, an offense less grave than drug possession and distribution, trigger removal whether or not they necessarily implicate a federally controlled substance, see Martinez Espinoza, 25 I. & N. Dec. 118.  The incongruous upshot is that an alien is not removable for possessing a substance controlled only under Kansas law, but he is removable for using a sock to contain that substance.  Because it makes scant sense, the BIA's interpretation, we hold, is owed no deference under the doctrine described in Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843 (1984).
III
     Offering an addition to the BIA's rationale, the Eighth Circuit reasoned that a state paraphernalia possession conviction categorically relates to a federally controlled substance so long as there is "nearly a complete overlap" between the drugs controlled under state and federal law. 719 F. 3d, at 1000.10  The Eighth Circuit's analysis, however, scarcely explains or ameliorates the BIA's anomalous separation of paraphernalia possession offenses from drug possession and distribution offenses.
     Apparently recognizing this problem, the Government urges, as does the dissent, that the overlap between state and federal drug schedules supports the removal of aliens convicted of any drug crime, not just paraphernalia offenses.  As noted, §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) authorizes the removal of any alien "convicted of a violation of . . . any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in [§802])."  According to the Government, the words "relating to" modify "law or regulation," rather than "violation."  Brief for Respondent 25-26 (a limiting phrase ordinarily modifies the last antecedent).  Therefore, the Government argues, aliens who commit "drug crimes" in States whose drug schedules substantially overlap the federal schedules are removable, for "state statutes that criminalize hundreds of federally controlled drugs and a handful of similar substances, are laws 'relating to' federally controlled substances."  Brief for Respondent 17.
     We do not gainsay that, as the Government urges, the last reasonable referent of "relating to," as those words appear in §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), is "law or regulation."  The removal provision is thus satisfied when the elements that make up the state crime of conviction relate to a federally controlled substance.  As this case illustrates, however, the Government's construction of the federal removal statute stretches to the breaking point, reaching state-court convictions, like Mellouli's, in which "[no] controlled substance (as defined in [§802])" figures as an element of the offense.  We recognize, too, that the §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) words to which the dissent attaches great weight, i.e., "relating to," post, at 2-3, are "broad" and "indeterminate."  Maracich v. Spears, 570 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 9) (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted).11  As we cautioned in New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655 (1995), those words, "extend[ed] to the furthest stretch of [their] indeterminacy, . . . stop nowhere."  "[C]ontext," therefore, may "tu[g] . . . in favor of a narrower reading."  Yates v. United States, 574 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 10).  Context does so here.
     The historical background of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) demonstrates that Congress and the BIA have long required a direct link between an alien's crime of conviction and a particular federally controlled drug.  Supra, at 8-9.  The Government's position here severs that link by authorizing deportation any time the state statute of conviction bears some general relation to federally controlled drugs.  The Government offers no cogent reason why its position is limited to state drug schedules that have a "substantial overlap" with the federal schedules.  Brief for Respondent 31.  A statute with any overlap would seem to be related to federally controlled drugs.  Indeed, the Government's position might well encompass convictions for offenses related to drug activity more generally, such as gun possession, even if those convictions do not actually involve drugs (let alone federally controlled drugs).  The Solicitor General, while resisting this particular example, acknowledged that convictions under statutes "that have some connection to drugs indirectly" might fall within §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  Tr. of Oral Arg. 36.  This sweeping interpretation departs so sharply from the statute's text and history that it cannot be considered a permissible reading.
     In sum, construction of §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) must be faithful to the text, which limits the meaning of "controlled substance," for removal purposes, to the substances controlled under §802.  We therefore reject the argument that any drug offense renders an alien removable, without regard to the appearance of the drug on a §802 schedule.  Instead, to trigger removal under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), the Government must connect an element of the alien's conviction to a drug "defined in [§802]."
*  *  *
     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is reversed.
It is so ordered.

Thomas, J., dissenting
 575 U. S. ____ (2015)
No. 13-1034
MOONES MELLOULI, PETITIONER v. LORETTA E. LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit
[June 1, 2015]

     Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.
     The Court reverses the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on the ground that it misapplied the federal removal statute.  It rejects the Government's interpretation of that statute, which would supply an alternative ground for affirmance.  Yet it offers no interpretation of its own.  Lower courts are thus left to guess which convictions qualify an alien for removal under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), and the majority has deprived them of their only guide: the statutory text itself.  Because the statute renders an alien removable whenever he is convicted of violating a law "relating to" a federally controlled substance, I would affirm.
I
     With one exception not applicable here, §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) makes removable "[a]ny alien who at any time after admission has been convicted of a violation of (or a conspiracy or attempt to violate) any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)."  I would hold, consistent with the text, that the provision requires that the conviction arise under a "law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)."  Thus, Mellouli was properly subject to removal if the Kansas statute of conviction "relat[es] to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)," regardless of whether his particular conduct would also have subjected him to prosecution under federal controlled-substances laws.  See ante, at 6 ("An alien's actual conduct is irrelevant to the inquiry").  The majority's 12 references to the sock that Mellouli used to conceal the pills are thus entirely beside the point.1
     The critical question, which the majority does not directly answer, is what it means for a law or regulation to "relat[e] to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)."  At a minimum, we know that this phrase does not require a complete overlap between the substances controlled under the state law and those controlled under 21 U. S. C. §802.  To "relate to" means " 'to stand in some relation; to have bearing or concern; to pertain; refer; to bring into association with or connection with.' "  Morales v. Trans World Airlines, Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 383 (1992) (quoting Black's Law Dictionary 1158 (5th ed. 1979)).  In ordinary parlance, one thing can "relate to" another even if it also relates to other things.  As ordinarily understood, therefore, a state law regulating various controlled substances may "relat[e] to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)" even if the statute also controls a few substances that do not fall within the federal definition.
     The structure of the removal statute confirms this interpretation.  Phrases like "relating to" and "in connection with" have broad but indeterminate meanings that must be understood in the context of "the structure of the statute and its other provisions."  Maracich v. Spears, 570 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 9) ("in connection with"); see also New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655 (1995) ("relate to"); see generally California Div. of Labor Standards Enforcement v. Dillingham Constr., N. A., Inc., 519 U. S. 316, 324 (1997) (describing the Court's efforts to interpret the " 'clearly expansive' " "relate to" language in the pre-emption provision of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974).  In interpreting such phrases, we must be careful to honor Congress' choice to use expansive language.  Maracich, supra, at ___ (Ginsburg, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 7) (noting that a statute should be interpreted broadly in light of Congress' decision to use sweeping language like "in connection with"); see also, e.g., Alaska Dept. of Environmental Conservation v. EPA, 540 U. S. 461, 484 (2004) (Ginsburg, J.) (interpreting Environmental Protection Agency's authority in light of the "notably capacious terms" contained in its authorizing statute).
     Here, the "structure of the statute and its other provisions" indicate that Congress understood this phrase to sweep quite broadly.  Several surrounding subsections of the removal statute reveal that when Congress wanted to define with greater specificity the conduct that subjects an alien to removal, it did so by omitting the expansive phrase "relating to."  For example, a neighboring provision makes removable "[a]ny alien who . . . is convicted under any law of purchasing, selling, offering for sale, exchanging, using, owning, possessing, or carrying . . . any weapon, part, or accessory which is a firearm or destructive device (as defined in section 921(a) of title 18)."  8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(C) (emphasis added).  This language explicitly requires that the object of the offense fit within a federal definition.  Other provisions adopt similar requirements.  See, e.g., §1227(a)(2)(E)(i) (making removable "[a]ny alien who . . . is convicted of a crime of domestic violence," where "the term 'crime of domestic violence' means any crime of violence (as defined in section 16 of title 18) . . . committed by" a person with a specified family relationship with the victim); see generally §1101(a)(43) (defining certain aggravated felonies using federal definitions as elements).  That Congress, in this provision, required only that a law relate to a federally controlled substance, as opposed to involve such a substance, suggests that it understood "relating to" as having its ordinary and expansive meaning.  See, e.g., Russello v. United States, 464 U. S. 16, 23 (1983).
     Applying this interpretation of "relating to," a conviction under Kansas' drug paraphernalia statute qualifies as a predicate offense under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  That state statute prohibits the possession or use of drug paraphernalia to "store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce a controlled substance into the human body."  Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-5709(b)(2) (2013 Cum. Supp.).  And, as used in this statute, a "controlled substance" is a substance that appears on Kansas' schedules, §21-5701(a), which in turn consist principally of federally controlled substances.  Ante, at 3; see also Brief for Petitioner 3 (listing nine substances on Kansas' schedules that were not on the federal schedules at the time of Mellouli's arrest); Brief for Respondent 8 (noting that, at the time of Mellouli's arrest, more than 97 percent of the named substances on Kansas' schedules were federally controlled).  The law certainly "relat[es] to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)" because it prohibits conduct involving controlled substances falling within the federal definition in §802.
     True, approximately three percent of the substances appearing on Kansas' lists of "controlled substances" at the time of Mellouli's conviction did not fall within the federal definition, ante, at 3, meaning that an individual convicted of possessing paraphernalia may never have used his paraphernalia with a federally controlled substance.  But that fact does not destroy the relationship between the law and federally controlled substances.  Mellouli was convicted for violating a state law "relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)," so he was properly removed under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).
II
A
     The majority rejects this straightforward interpretation because it "reach[es] state-court convictions . . . in which '[no] controlled substance (as defined in [§802])' figures as an element of the offense."  Ante, at 13.  This assumes the answer to the question at the heart of this case: whether the removal statute does in fact reach such convictions.  To answer that question by assuming the answer is circular.
     The majority hints that some more limited definition of "relating to" is suggested by context.  See ibid.  I wholeheartedly agree that we must look to context to understand indeterminate terms like "relating to," which is why I look to surrounding provisions of the removal statute.  These "reveal that when Congress wanted to define with greater specificity the conduct that subjects an alien to removal, it did so by omitting the expansive phrase 'relating to.' "  Supra, at 3.  For its part, the majority looks to the context of other provisions referring to "controlled substances" without a definitional parenthetical, ante, at 13, n. 11, and rejoins that the most natural reading of the statute "shrinks to the vanishing point the words 'as defined in [§802],' "  ante, at 9-10, n. 9.  But the definition of controlled substances does play a role in my interpretation, by requiring that the law bear some relationship to federally controlled substances.  Although we need not establish the precise boundaries of that relationship in this case given that Kansas' paraphernalia law clearly qualifies under any reasonable definition of "relating to," the definition of controlled substances imposes a meaningful limit on the statutes that qualify.
B
     The majority appears to conclude that a statute "relates to" a federally controlled substance if its "definition of the offense of conviction" necessarily includes as an element of that offense a federally controlled substance.  Ante, at 6.  The text will not bear this meaning.
     The first problem with the majority's interpretation is that it converts a removal provision expressly keyed to features of the statute itself into one keyed to features of the underlying generic offense.  To understand the difference, one need look no further than this Court's decision in Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. ___ (2013).  In that case, removal was predicated on the generic offense of "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2).  Thus, in order to satisfy the federal criteria, it was necessary for the state offense at issue to have as elements the same elements that make up that generic offense.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  By contrast, §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) does not refer to a generic offense for which we must discern the relevant criteria from its nature.  Instead, it establishes the relevant criteria explicitly, and does so for the law of conviction itself rather than for some underlying generic offense--that is, the law of conviction must "relat[e] to" a federally controlled substance.
     The only plausible way of reading the text here to refer to a generic offense that has as one element the involve-ment of a federally controlled substance would be to read "relating to" as modifying "violation" instead of "law."  Under that reading, the statute would attach immigration consequences to a "violation . . . relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)," rather than a violation of a "law . . . relating to a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21)."  Yet the majority expressly--and correctly--rejects as grammatically incorrect Mellouli's argument that the "relating to" clause modifies "violation."  Ante, at 12.
      Having done so, the majority can reconcile its outcome with the text only by interpreting the words "relating to" to mean "regulating only."  It should be obvious why the majority does not make this argument explicit.  Even assuming "regulating only" were a permissible interpretation of "relating to"--for it certainly is not the most natural one--that interpretation would be foreclosed by Congress' pointed word choice in the surrounding provisions.  And given the logical upshot of the majority's interpretation, it is it even more understandable that it avoids offering an explicit exegesis.  For unless the Court ultimately adopts the modified categorical approach for statutes, like the one at issue here, that define offenses with reference to "controlled substances" generally, and treats them as divisible by each separately listed substance, ante, at 6, n. 4, its interpretation would mean that no conviction under a controlled-substances regime more expansive than the Federal Government's would trigger removal.2  Thus, whenever a State moves first in subjecting some newly discovered drug to regulation, every alien convicted during the lag between state and federal regulation would be immunized from the immigration consequences of his conduct.  Cf. Brief for Respondent 10 (explaining that two of the nine nonfederally controlled substances on Kansas' schedules at the time Mellouli was arrested became federally controlled within a year of his arrest).  And the Government could never, under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), remove an alien convicted of violating the controlled-substances law of a State that defines "controlled substances" with reference to a list containing even one substance that does not appear on the federal schedules.
     Finding no support for its position in the text, the majority relies on the historical background, ante, at 13-14, and especially the Board of Immigration Appeals' (BIA) decision in Matter of Paulus, 11 I. & N. Dec. 274 (1965)--a surprising choice, given that the majority concludes its discussion of that history by acknowledging that the BIA's atextual approach to the statute makes "scant sense," ante, at 11.  To the extent that the BIA's approach to §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) and its predecessors is consistent with the majority's, it suffers from the same flaw: It fails to account for the text of the removal provision because it looks at whether the conviction itself necessarily involved a substance regulated under federal law, not at whether the statute related to one.  See Paulus, 11 I. & N. Dec., at 276 ("[O]nly a conviction for illicit possession of or traffic in a substance which is defined as a narcotic drug under federal laws can be the basis for deportation" (emphasis added)); Matter of Ferreira, 26 I. & N. Dec. 415, 418-419 (BIA 2014) (modeling its categorical approach to §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) after the analysis in Moncrieffe, which, as explained above, keyed removal to the characteristics of the offense).
     Section 1227(a)(2)(B)(i) requires only that the state law itself, not the "generic" offense defined by the law, "relat[e] to" a federally controlled substance.  The majority has not offered a textual argument capable of supporting a different conclusion.
*  *  *
     The statutory text resolves this case.  True, faithfully applying that text means that an alien may be deported for committing an offense that does not involve a federally controlled substance.  Nothing about that consequence, however, is so outlandish as to call this application into doubt.  An alien may be removed only if he is convicted of violating a law, and I see nothing absurd about removing individuals who are unwilling to respect the drug laws of the jurisdiction in which they find themselves.
     The majority thinks differently, rejecting the only plausible reading of this provision and adopting an interpretation that finds no purchase in the text.  I fail to understand why it chooses to do so, apart from a gut instinct that an educated professional engaged to an American citizen should not be removed for concealing unspecified orange tablets in his sock.  Or perhaps the majority just disapproves of the fact that Kansas, exercising its police powers, has decided to criminalize conduct that Congress, exercising its limited powers, has decided not to criminalize, ante, at 4-5.  Either way, that is not how we should go about interpreting statutes, and I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 At the time of Mellouli's conviction, Kan. Stat. Ann. §§21-5701(a) and 21-5709(b) (2013 Cum. Supp.) were codified at, respectively, §§21-36a01(a) and 21-36a09(b) (2010 Cum. Supp.).
Footnote 2 See H. Silverman, The Pill Book 23 (13th ed. 2008).
Footnote 3 We departed from the categorical approach in Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29 (2009), based on the atypical cast of the prescription at issue, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i).  That provision defines as an "aggravated felony" an offense "involv[ing] fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000."  The following subparagraph, (M)(ii), refers to an offense "described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."  No offense "described in section 7201 of title 26," we pointed out, "has a specific loss amount as an element."  557 U. S., at 38.  Similarly, "no widely applicable federal fraud statute . . . contains a relevant monetary loss threshold," id., at 39, and "[most] States had no major fraud or deceit statute with any relevant monetary threshold," id., at 40.  As categorically interpreted, (M)(ii), the tax evasion provision, would have no application, and (M)(i), the fraud or deceit provision, would apply only in an extraordinarily limited and haphazard manner.  Ibid.  We therefore concluded that Congress intended the monetary thresholds in subparagraphs (M)(i) and (M)(ii) to apply "to the specific circumstances surrounding an offender's commission of [the defined] crime on a specific occasion."  Ibid.  In the main, §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), the provision at issue here, has no such circumstance-specific thrust; its language refers to crimes generically defined.
Footnote 4 A version of this approach, known as the "modified categorical approach," applies to "state statutes that contain several different crimes, each described separately."  Moncrieffe v. Holder, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 5).  In such cases, "a court may determine which particular offense the noncitizen was convicted of by examining the charging document and jury instructions, or in the case of a guilty plea, the plea agreement, plea colloquy, or some comparable judicial record of the factual basis for the plea."  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  Off limits to the adjudicator, however, is any inquiry into the particular facts of the case.  Because the Government has not argued that this case falls within the compass of the modified-categorical approach, we need not reach the issue.
Footnote 5 Mellouli's plea may be an example.  In admitting only paraphernalia possession, Mellouli avoided any identification, in the record of conviction, of the federally controlled substance (Adderall) his sock contained.  See supra, at 3-4.
Footnote 6 The 1956 version of the statute, for example, permitted removal of any alien "who at any time has been convicted of a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any law or regulation relating to the illicit possession of or traffic in narcotic drugs, or who has been convicted of a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any law or regulation governing or controlling the taxing, manufacture, production, compounding, transportation, sale, exchange, dispensing, giving away, importation, exportation, or the possession for the purpose of the manufacture, production, compounding, transportation, sale, exchange, dispensing, giving away, importation, or exportation of opium, coca leaves, heroin, marihuana, any salt derivative or preparation of opium or coca leaves or isonipecaine or any addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining opiate."  Narcotic Control Act of 1956, §301(b), 70 Stat. 575.
Footnote 7 See, e.g., Matter of Fong, 10 I. & N. Dec. 616, 619 (BIA 1964) (a Pennsylvania conviction for unlawful use of a drug rendered alien removable because "every drug enumerated in the Pennsylvania law [was] found to be a narcotic drug or marijuana within the meaning of [the federal removal statute]"), overruled in part on other grounds, Matter of Sum, 13 I. & N. Dec. 569 (1970).
Footnote 8 The Government acknowledges that Ferreira "assumed the applicability of [the Paulus] framework."  Brief for Respondent 49.  Whether Ferreira applied that framework correctly is not a matter this case calls upon us to decide.
Footnote 9 The dissent maintains that it is simply following "the statutory text."  Post, at 1.  It is evident, however, that the dissent shrinks to the vanishing point the words "as defined in [§802]."  If §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) stopped with the words "relating to a controlled substance," the dissent would make sense.  But Congress did not stop there.  It qualified "relating to a controlled substance" by adding the limitation "as defined in [§802]."  If those words do not confine §1227(a)(2)(B)(i)'s application to drugs defined in §802, one can only wonder why Congress put them there.
Footnote 10 The BIA posited, but did not rely on, a similar rationale in Martinez Espinoza.  See 25 I. & N. Dec., 118, 121 (2009) (basing decision on a "distinction between crimes involving the possession or distribution of a particular drug and those involving other conduct associated with the drug trade in general").
Footnote 11 The dissent observes that certain provisions of the immigration statute involving firearms and domestic violence "specif[y] the conduct that subjects an alien to removal" without "the expansive phrase 'relating to.' "  Post, at 3.  From this statutory context, the dissent infers that Congress must have intended the words "relating to" to have expansive meaning.  Post, at 3-4.  But the dissent overlooks another contextual clue--i.e., that other provisions of the immigration statute tying immigration consequences to controlled-substance offenses contain no reference to §802.  See 8 U. S. C. §1357(d) (allowing detainer of any alien who has been "arrested by a Federal, State, or local law enforcement official for a violation of any law relating to controlled substances"); §1184(d)(3)(B)(iii) (allowing Secretary of Homeland Security to deny certain visa applications when applicant has at least three convictions of crimes "relating to a controlled substance or alcohol not arising from a single act").  These provisions demonstrate that when Congress seeks to capture conduct involving a "controlled substance," it says just that, not "a controlled substance (as defined in [§802])."
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 It is likewise beside the point that the pills were, in fact, federally controlled substances, that Mellouli concealed them in his sock while being booked into jail, that he was being booked into jail for his second arrest for driving under the influence in less than one year, that he pleaded to the paraphernalia offense after initially being charged with trafficking contraband in jail, or that he has since been charged with resisting arrest and failure to display a valid driver's license upon demand.
Footnote 2 If the Court ultimately adopts the modified categorical approach, it runs into new textual problems.  Under that approach, an alien would be subject to removal for violating Kansas' drug paraphernalia statute whenever a qualifying judicial record reveals that the conviction involved a federally controlled substance.  If that result is permissible under the removal statute, however, then Kansas' paraphernalia law must qualify as a law "relating to" a federally controlled substance.  Otherwise, the text of the statute would afford no basis for his removal.  It would then follow that any alien convicted of "a violation of" that law is removable under §1227(a)(2)(B)(i), regardless of whether a qualifying judicial record reveals the controlled substance at issue.





United States Supreme Court
SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES, ET AL. v. CUELLAR DE OSORIO ET AL., (2014)
No. 12-930
Argued: December 10, 2013    Decided: June 9, 2014


The Immigration and Nationality Act permits qualifying U. S. citizens and lawful permanent residents (LPRs) to petition for certain family members to obtain immigrant visas.  A sponsored individual, known as the principal beneficiary, is placed into a "family preference" category based on his relationship with the petitioner.  8 U. S. C. §§1153(a)(1)-(4).  The principal beneficiary's spouse and minor children in turn qualify as derivative beneficiaries, "entitled to the same status" and "order of consideration" as the principal.  §1153(d).  The beneficiaries then become eligible to apply for visas in order of "priority date"--that is, the date a petition was filed.  §1153(e)(1).  Because the immigration process often takes years or decades to complete, a child seeking to immigrate may "age out"--i.e., reach adulthood and lose her immigration status--before she reaches the front of the visa queue.  The Child Status Protection Act (CSPA) sets forth a remedy in that circumstance, providing that "[i]f the age of an alien is determined . . . to be 21 years of age or older," notwithstanding certain allowances for bureaucratic delay, §§1153(h)(1)-(2), "the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."  §1153(h)(3).
          Respondents, principal beneficiaries who became LPRs, filed petitions for their aged-out children, asserting that the newly filed petitions should receive the same priority date as their original petitions.  Instead, U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) gave the new petitions current priority dates.  The District Court granted the Government summary judgment, deferring to the Board of Immigration Appeals' (BIA's) determination that only those petitions that can be seamlessly converted from one family preference category to another without the need for a new sponsor are entitled to conversion under §1153(h)(3).  The en banc Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that the provision unambiguously entitled all aged-out derivative beneficiaries to automatic conversion and priority date retention.
Held: The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded.
695 F. 3d 1003, reversed and remanded.
     Justice Kagan, joined by Justice Kennedy and Justice Ginsburg, concluded that the BIA's textually reasonable construction of §1153(h)(3)'s ambiguous language was entitled to deference.  Pp. 13-33.
     (a) Because §1153(h)(3) does not speak unambiguously to the issue here, a court must defer to the BIA's reasonable interpretation.  See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 844.  The first clause of §1153(h)(3) states a condition that encompasses every aged-out beneficiary of a family preference petition.  The second clause, however, does not easily cohere with the first.  It prescribes a remedy that can apply to only a subset of the beneficiaries described in the first clause.  This remedial prescription directs immigration officials to take the alien's petition and convert it from a category benefitting a child to an appropriate category for adults, without any change in the petition, including its sponsor, or any new filing.  Moreover, this conversion is to be "automati[c]"--that is, one involving no additional decisions, contingencies, or delays.  Thus, the only aliens who may benefit from §1153(h)(3)'s back half are those for whom automatic conversion is possible.
     The understanding that "automatic conversion" entails nothing more than picking up the petition from one category and dropping it into another for which the alien now qualifies matches the exclusive way immigration law used the term when §1153(h)(3) was enacted.  See 8 CFR §204.2(i)(1)-(3) (2002).  And Congress used the word "conversion" in the identical way elsewhere in the CSPA.  See, e.g., §§1151(f)(2), (3). 
     If the term meant more than that in §1153(h)(3), it would undermine the family preference system's core premise: that each immigrant must have a qualified and willing sponsor.  See §§1154(a), (b).  If an original sponsor does not have a legally recognized relationship with the aged-out derivative beneficiary, another sponsor, e.g., the old principal beneficiary, must be swapped in for the alien to qualify for a new family preference category.  But immigration officials cannot assume that a new sponsor is eligible and willing to petition on the alien's behalf, given the numerous requirements the law imposes on family preference petitioners.  See, e.g., §1154(a)(1)(B)(i)(II).  Nei-ther can they figure out whether a valid sponsor exists unless he files and USCIS approves a new petition--the very thing §1153(h)(3) says is not required.  
     In any case, a new qualified sponsor will rarely exist at the requisite time.  An alien is deemed to age out on "the date on which an immigrant visa number became available for the alien's parent."  §1153(h)(1)(A).  Since aging out triggers automatic conversion, the date of automatic conversion is best viewed as the same.  But at that time, the aged-out beneficiary's parent cannot yet be a citizen or LPR, and so no new, qualified sponsor will be ready to step into the old one's shoes.
     On the above account, §1153(h)(3)'s second clause provides a remedy to those principal and derivative beneficiaries who had a qualifying relationship with an LPR both before and after they aged out.  In contrast, aliens like respondents' children--the nieces, nephews, and grandchildren of the initial sponsors--cannot qualify for "automatic conversion":  they lacked a qualifying preference relationship with the initial petitioner, and so cannot fit into a new preference category without obtaining a new sponsor.
     The ambiguity created by §1153(h)(3)'s ill-fitting clauses left the BIA to choose how to reconcile the statute's different commands.  It reasonably opted to abide by the inherent limits of §1153(h)(3)'s remedial clause, rather than go beyond those limits so as to match the sweep of the first clause's condition.  When an agency thus resolves statutory tension, ordinary principles of administrative deference require this Court to defer.  See National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife, 551 U. S. 644, 666.  Pp. 13-22.
     (b) Respondents take issue with the BIA's interpretation, but none of their contentions is persuasive.  Pp. 22-33.
          (1) Respondents aver that every aged-out beneficiary could be automatically converted if immigration officials substituted new sponsors and managed the timing of conversion so that a new sponsor existed on the relevant date.  These administrative maneuvers are not in keeping with the natural and long-established meaning of "automatic conversion," they require conversion to occur on a date that has no connection to the alien's aging out, and they demand administrative juggling to make automatic conversion work.  And that painstakingly managed process still cannot succeed because a derivative's parent may never become able to sponsor a visa--and immigration officials cannot practicably tell whether a given parent has done so.  Pp. 22-27.
          (2) Respondents argue that the word "and" in the second clause of §1153(h)(3) indicates that priority date retention is a benefit wholly independent of automatic conversion.  But "and" does not necessarily disjoin two phrases, and context suggests that the instructions work in tandem.  In other statutory and regulatory provisions respecting "conversions," retention of a priority date is conditional on a conversion occurring.  See, e.g., §§1154(k)(1)-(3).  Respondent's reading would make priority date retention conditional on something the statute nowhere mentions.  And it would engender unusual results that, without some clearer statement, the Court cannot conclude that Congress intended.  Pp. 27-30.
          (3) Finally, respondents contend that, assuming §1153(h)(3) is ambiguous, the BIA acted unreasonably in choosing the more restrictive reading.  But the BIA's interpretation benefits from administrative simplicity and fits with immigration law's basic first-come, first-served rule.  By contrast, respondents would scramble the priority order Congress established by allowing aged-out derivative beneficiaries, like respondents' sons and daughters, to enter the visa queue ahead of beneficiaries who had a qualifying relationship with an LPR for a far longer time.  Pp. 31-33.
     The Chief Justice, joined by Justice Scalia, agreed that the BIA's interpretation was reasonable, but not because an agency has authority to resolve direct conflicts within a statute.  There is no conflict or internal tension in §1153(h)(3).  The first clause of the provision defines the persons potentially affected, but does not grant anything to anyone.  The particular benefit provided by the statute--automatic conversion and retention of priority date--is found exclusively in the second clause, and that relief requires, at minimum, that an aged-out beneficiary have his own eligible sponsor who is committed to providing financial support for the beneficiary.  Beyond that, Congress did not speak clearly to which petitions can be automatically converted.  The BIA's reasonable interpretation of §1153(h)(3) is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the statutory terms, with the established meaning of automatic conversion in immigration law, and with the structure of the family-based immigration system.  Pp. 1-4.
     Kagan, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which Kennedy and Ginsburg, JJ., joined.  Roberts, C. J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Scalia, J., joined.  Alito, J., filed a dissenting opinion.  Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Breyer, J., joined, and in which Thomas, J., joined except as to footnote 3.

Opinion of Kagan, J.
 573 U. S. ____ (2014)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 12-930
LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITEDSTATES CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v. ROSA-LINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 9, 2014]

     Justice Kagan announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which Justice Kennedy and Justice Ginsburg join.
     Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., citizens and lawful permanent residents (LPRs) of the United States may petition for certain family members--spouses, siblings, and children of various ages--to obtain immigrant visas.  Such a sponsored individual is known as the petition's principal beneficiary.  In turn, any principal beneficiary's minor child--meaning an unmarried child under the age of 21--qualifies as a derivative beneficiary, "entitled to the same [immigration] status" and "order of consideration" as his parent.  §1153(d).  Accordingly, when a visa becomes available to the petition's principal beneficiary, one also becomes available to her minor child.
     But what happens if, sometime after the relevant petition was filed, a minor child (whether a principal or a derivative beneficiary) has turned 21--or, in immigration lingo, has "aged out"?  The immigration process may take years or even decades to complete, due in part to bureaucratic delays associated with reviewing immigration documents and in (still greater) part to long queues for the limited number of visas available each year.  So someone who was a youngster at the start of the process may be an adult at the end, and no longer qualify for an immigration status given to minors.  The Child Status Protection Act (CSPA), 116 Stat. 927, ensures that the time Government officials have spent processing immigration papers will not count against the beneficiary in assessing his status.  See 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(1).  But even with that provision, the beneficiary may age out solely because of the time he spent waiting in line for a visa to become available.
     The question presented in this case is whether the CSPA grants a remedy to all aliens who have thus outpaced the immigration process--that is, all aliens who counted as child beneficiaries when a sponsoring petition was filed, but no longer do so (even after excluding administrative delays) by the time they reach the front of the visa queue.  The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board) said no.  It interpreted the CSPA as providing relief to only a subset of that group--specifically, those aged-out aliens who qualified or could have qualified as principal beneficiaries of a visa petition, rather than only as derivative beneficiaries piggy-backing on a parent.  We now uphold the Board's determination as a permissible construction of the statute.
I
A
     An alien needs an immigrant visa to enter and permanently reside in the United States.  See §1181(a).1  To obtain that highly sought-after document, the alien must fall within one of a limited number of immigration categories.  See §§1151(a)-(b).  The most favored is for the "immediate relatives" of U. S. citizens--their parents, spouses, and unmarried children under the age of 21. See §§1151(b)(2)(A)(i), 1101(b)(1).  Five other categories--crucial to this case, and often denominated "preference" categories--are for "family-sponsored immigrants," who include more distant or independent relatives of U. S. citizens, and certain close relatives of LPRs.2  Specifically, those family preference categories are:
F1:     the unmarried, adult (21 or over) sons and daughters of U. S. citizens;
F2A:     the spouses and unmarried, minor (under 21) children of LPRs;
F2B:     the unmarried, adult (21 or over) sons and daughters of LPRs;
F3:      the married sons and daughters of U. S. citizens;
F4:      the brothers and sisters of U. S. citizens.  §§1151(a)(1), 1153(a)(1)-(4).3
(A word to the wise: Dog-ear this page for easy reference, because these categories crop up regularly throughout this opinion.)
     The road to obtaining any family-based immigrant visa begins when a sponsoring U. S. citizen or LPR files a petition on behalf of a foreign relative, termed the principal beneficiary.  See §§1154(a)(1)(A)(i), (a)(1)(B)(i)(I), (b); 8 CFR §204.1(a)(1) (2014).  The sponsor (otherwise known as the petitioner--we use the words interchangeably) must provide U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) with evidence showing, among other things, that she has the necessary familial relationship with the beneficiary, see §§204.2(a)(2), (d)(2), (g)(2), and that she has not committed any conduct disqualifying her from sponsoring an alien for a visa, see, e.g., 8 U. S. C. §1154(a)(1)(B)(i)(II) (barring an LPR from submitting a petition if she has committed certain offenses against minors).  USCIS thereafter reviews the petition, and approves it if found to meet all requirements.  See §1154(b).
     For a family preference beneficiary, that approval results not in getting a visa then and there, but only in getting a place in line.  (The case is different for "immediate relatives" of U. S. citizens, who can apply for and receive a visa as soon as a sponsoring petition is approved.)  The law caps the number of visas issued each year in the five family preference categories, see §§1151(c)(1), 1152, 1153(a)(1)-(4), and demand regularly exceeds the supply.  As a consequence, the principal beneficiary of an approved petition is placed in a queue with others in her category (F1, F2A, or what have you) in order of "priority date"--that is, the date a petition was filed with USCIS.  See §1153(e)(1); 8 CFR §204.1(b); 22 CFR 42.53(a) (2013).  Every month, the Department of State sets a cut-off date for each family preference category, indicating that visas (sometimes referred to by "visa numbers") are available for beneficiaries with priority dates earlier than the cut-off.  See 8 CFR §245.1(g)(1); 22 CFR §42.51(b).  The system is thus first-come, first-served within each preference category, with visas becoming available in order of priority date.
     Such a date may benefit not only the principal beneficiary of a family preference petition, but also her spouse and minor children.  Those persons, labeled the petition's "derivative beneficiar[ies]," are "entitled to the same status, and the same order of consideration" as the principal.  8 U. S. C. §§1153(d), (h).  Accordingly, when a visa becomes available for the principal, one becomes available for her spouse and minor children too.  And that is so even when (as is usually but not always the case) the spouse and children would not qualify for any family preference category on their own.  For example, the child of an F4 petition's principal beneficiary is the niece or nephew of a U. S. citizen, and federal immigration law does not recognize that relationship.  Nonetheless, the child can piggy-back on his qualifying parent in seeking an immigrant visa--although, as will be further discussed, he may not immigrate without her.  See 22 CFR §40.1(a)(2); infra, at 6, 20-21, 31-32.
     Once visas become available, the principal and any derivative beneficiaries must separately file visa applications.  See 8 U. S. C. §1202(a).  Such an application requires an alien to demonstrate in various ways her admissibility to the United States.  See, e.g., §1182(a) (1)(A) (alien may not have serious health problems); §1182(a)(2)(A) (alien may not have been convicted of certain crimes); §1182(a)(3)(B) (alien may not have engaged in terrorist activity).  Notably, one necessary showing involves the U. S. citizen or LPR who filed the initial petition: To mitigate any possibility of becoming a "public charge," the visa applicant (whether a principal or derivative beneficiary) must append an "affidavit of support" executed by that sponsoring individual.  §§1182(a)(4)(C)(ii), 1183a(a)(1).  Such an affidavit legally commits the sponsor to support the alien, usually for at least 10 years, with an annual income "not less than 125% of the federal poverty line."  §1183a(a)(1)(A); see §§1183a(a)(2)-(3).
     After the beneficiaries have filed their applications, a consular official reviews the documents and, if everything is in order, schedules in-person interviews.  See §1202(h).  The interviews for a principal and her children (or spouse) usually occur back-to-back, although those for the children may also come later.4  The consular official will determine first whether the principal should receive a visa; if (but only if ) the answer is yes, the official will then consider the derivatives' applications.  See 22 CFR §§40.1(a)(2), 42.62, 42.81(a).  Provided all goes well, everyone exits the consulate with visas in hand--but that still does not make them LPRs.  See 8 U. S. C. §1154(e).  Each approved alien must then travel to the United States within a set time, undergo inspection, and confirm her admissibility.  See §§1201(c), 1222, 1225(a)-(b).  Once again, a derivative's fate is tied to the principal's: If the principal cannot enter the country, neither can her children (or spouse).  See §1153(d); 22 CFR §40.1(a)(2).  When, but only when, an alien with an immigrant visa is approved at the border does she finally become an LPR.5
B
     All of this takes time--and often a lot of it.  At the front end, many months may go by before USCIS approves the initial sponsoring petition.6  On the back end, several additional months may elapse while a consular official considers the alien's visa application and schedules an interview.7 And the middle is the worst.  After a sponsoring petition is approved but before a visa application can be filed, a family-sponsored immigrant may stand in line for years--or even decades--just waiting for an immigrant visa to become available.  See, e.g., Dept. of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, 9 Visa Bulletin, Immigrant Numbers for December 2013 (Nov. 8, 2013).
     And as the years tick by, young people grow up, and thereby endanger their immigration status.  Remember that not all offspring, but only those under the age of 21 can qualify as an "immediate relative" of a U. S. citizen, or as the principal beneficiary of an LPR's F2A petition, or (most crucially here) as the derivative beneficiary of any family preference petition.  See supra, at 3, 5.  So an alien eligible to immigrate at the start of the process (when a sponsor files a petition) might not be so at the end (when an immigration official reviews his documents for admission).  He may have "aged out" of his original immigration status by the simple passage of time.
     In 2002, Congress enacted the Child Status Protection Act (CSPA), 116 Stat. 927, to address the treatment of those once-but-no-longer-minor aliens.  One section of the Act neatly eliminates the "aging out" problem for the offspring of U. S. citizens seeking to immigrate as "immediate relatives."  Under that provision, the "determination of whether [such] an alien satisfies the [immigration law's] age requirement . . . shall be made using [his] age" on the date the initial petition was filed.  8 U. S. C. §1151(f )(1).  The section thus halts the flow of time for that group of would-be immigrants: If an alien was young when a U. S. citizen sponsored his entry, then Peter Pan-like, he remains young throughout the immigration process.
     A different scheme--and one not nearly so limpid--applies to the offspring of LPRs and aliens who initially qualified as either principal beneficiaries of F2A petitions or derivative beneficiaries of any kind of family preference petition.  Section 3 of the CSPA, now codified at 8 U. S. C. §1153(h), contains three interlinked paragraphs that mitigate the "aging out" problem for those prospective immigrants.  The first two are complex but, with some perseverance, comprehensible.  The third--the key provision here--is through and through perplexing.8
     The first paragraph, §1153(h)(1), contains a formula for calculating the age of an alien "[f ]or purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d)"--that is, for any alien seeking an immigrant visa directly under F2A or as a derivative beneficiary of any preference category.  The "determination of whether [such] an alien satisfies the [immigration law's] age requirement"--that is, counts as under 21--"shall be made using--
     "(A) the age of the alien on the date on which an immigrant visa number becomes available for such alien (or, in the case of [derivative beneficiaries], the date on which an immigrant visa number became available for the alien's parent) . . . ; reduced by
     "(B) the number of days in the period during which the applicable petition described in paragraph (2) was pending."  §1153(h)(1).
The cross-referenced second paragraph, §1153(h)(2), then explains that the "applicable petition" mentioned is the petition covering the given alien--so again, either an F2A petition filed on his own behalf or any petition extending to him as a derivative.
     Taken together, those two paragraphs prevent an alien from "aging out" because of--but only because of--bureaucratic delays: the time Government officials spend reviewing (or getting around to reviewing) paperwork at what we have called the front and back ends of the immigration process.  See supra, at 6-7.  The months that elapse before USCIS personnel approve a family preference petition ("the period during which the applicable petition described in paragraph (2) was pending") do not count against an alien in determining his statutory "age."  Neither do the months a consular officer lets pass before adjudicating the alien's own visa application (the period after "an immigrant visa number becomes available for such alien (or . . . [his] parent)").  But the time in between--the months or, more likely, years the alien spends simply waiting for a visa to become available--is not similarly excluded in calculating his age: Every day the alien stands in that line is a day he grows older, under the immigration laws no less than in life.  And so derivative beneficiaries, as well as principal beneficiaries of F2A petitions, can still "age out"--in other words, turn 21, notwithstanding §1153(h)(1)'s dual age adjustments--prior to receiving an opportunity to immigrate.
     What happens then (if anything) is the subject of §1153(h)'s third paragraph--the provision at issue in this case.  That paragraph states:
     "If the age of an alien is determined under paragraph (1) to be 21 years of age or older for the purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d) of this section, the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."
The provision thus first references the aged-out beneficiaries of family preference petitions, and then directs immigration officials to do something whose meaning this opinion will further consider--i.e., "automatically convert" an alien's petition to an "appropriate category."
     The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) addressed the meaning of §1153(h)(3) in Matter of Wang, 25 I. & N. Dec. 28 (2009); its interpretation there is what we review in this case.  Wang was the principal beneficiary of an F4 petition that his sister, a U. S. citizen, filed in 1992.  At that time, Wang's daughter was 10 years old, and thus qualified as a derivative beneficiary.  But Wang waited in line for a visa for more than a decade, and by the time his priority date finally came up, his daughter had turned 22 (even after applying §1153(h)(1)'s age-reduction formula).  Wang thus obtained a visa for himself, boarded a plane alone, and entered the United States as an LPR.  He then filed a new preference petition on his daughter's behalf--this one under F2B, the category for LPRs' adult sons and daughters.  USCIS approved that petition, with a priority date corresponding to the date of Wang's filing.  Wang contended that under §1153(h)(3), his daughter was instead entitled to "retain the original priority date" given to his sister's old F4 petition, because that petition could "automatically be converted" to the F2B category.
     The Board rejected that argument. It explained that "the language of [§1153(h)(3)] does not expressly state which petitions qualify for automatic conversion and retention of priority dates."  Id., at 33.  Given that "ambiguity," the BIA looked to the "recognized meaning" of "the phrase 'automatic conversion' " in immigration statutes and regulations--which it "presume[d]" Congress understood when enacting the CSPA.  Id., at 33-35.  "Historically," the BIA showed, that language applied only when a petition could move seamlessly from one family preference category to another--not when a new sponsor was needed to fit a beneficiary into a different category.  Id., at 35.  Some aged-out aliens' petitions could accomplish that maneuver, because the alien had a qualifying relationship with the original sponsor, and continued to do so upon aging out; in that event, the Board held, §1153(h)(3) ensured that the alien would retain his original priority date.  See id., at 34-35.  But the F4 petition filed by Wang's sister could not "automatically be converted" in that way because Wang's daughter never had a qualifying relationship with the sponsor: "[N]o category exists for the niece of a United States citizen."  Id., at 35-36.  That is why Wang himself had to file a new petition on his daughter's behalf once she aged out and could no longer ride on his sibling status.  The Board saw no evidence that Congress meant "to expand the use of the concept[ ] of automatic conversion" to reach such a case.  Id., at 36.  And the Board thought such an expansion unwarranted because it would allow aliens like Wang's daughter, who lacked any independent entitlement to a visa during the years her father spent standing on the F4 queue, to "cut[ ] in line ahead of others awaiting visas in other preference categories."  Id., at 38.
C
     The respondents in this case are similarly situated to Wang, and they seek the same relief.  Each was once the principal beneficiary of either an F3 petition filed by a U. S. citizen parent or an F4 petition filed by a U. S. citizen sibling.  Each also has a son or daughter who, on the date of filing, was under 21 and thus qualified as a derivative beneficiary of the petition.  But as was true of Wang's daughter, the respondents' offspring had all turned 21 (even accounting for §1153(h)(1)'s age adjustments) by the time visas became available.  Accordingly, the respondents immigrated to the United States alone and, as new LPRs, filed F2B petitions for their sons and daughters.  Each argued that under §1153(h)(3), those petitions should get the same priority date as the original F3 and F4 petitions once had.  USCIS instead gave the new F2B petitions current priority dates, meaning that the sons and daughters could not leapfrog over others in the F2B line.
     This case began as two separate suits, one joining many individual plaintiffs and the other certified as a class action.  In each suit, the District Court deferred to the BIA's interpretation of §1153(h)(3) in Wang, and accordingly granted summary judgment to the Government.  See Zhang v. Napolitano, 663 F. Supp. 2d 913, 919 (CD Cal. 2009); Costelo v. Chertoff, No. SA08-00688, 2009 WL 4030516 (CD Cal., Nov. 10, 2009).  After consolidating the two cases on appeal, a panel of the Ninth Circuit affirmed: Like the lower courts, it found §1153(h)(3) ambiguous and acceded to the BIA's construction.  656 F. 3d 954, 965-966 (2011).  The Ninth Circuit then granted rehearing en banc and reversed in a 6-to-5 decision.  695 F. 3d 1003 (2012).  The majority concluded that "the plain language of the CSPA unambiguously grants automatic conversion and priority date retention to [all] aged-out derivative beneficiaries," and that the Board's contrary conclusion "is not entitled to deference."  Id., at 1006.
     We granted certiorari, 570 U. S. ___ (2013), to resolve a Circuit split on the meaning of §1153(h)(3),9 and we now reverse the Ninth Circuit's decision.
II
     Principles of Chevron deference apply when the BIA interprets the immigration laws.  See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 842-844 (1984); INS v. Aguirre-Aguirre, 526 U. S. 415, 424-425 (1999).  Indeed, "judicial deference to the Executive Branch is especially appropriate in the immigration context," where decisions about a complex statutory scheme often implicate foreign relations.  Id., at 425.  (Those hardy readers who have made it this far will surely agree with the "complexity" point.)  Under Chevron, the statute's plain meaning controls, whatever the Board might have to say.  See 467 U. S., at 842-843.  But if the law does not speak clearly to the question at issue, a court must defer to the Board's reasonable interpretation, rather than substitute its own reading.  Id., at 844.
     And §1153(h)(3) does not speak unambiguously to the issue here--or more precisely put, it addresses that issue in divergent ways.  We might call the provision Janus-faced.  Its first half looks in one direction, toward the sweeping relief the respondents propose, which would reach every aged-out beneficiary of a family preference petition.  But as the BIA recognized, and we will further explain, the section's second half looks another way, toward a remedy that can apply to only a subset of those beneficiaries--and one not including the respondents' offspring.  The two faces of the statute do not easily cohere with each other: Read either most naturally, and the other appears to mean not what it says.  That internal tension makes possible alternative reasonable constructions, bringing into correspondence in one way or another the section's different parts.  And when that is so, Chevron dictates that a court defer to the agency's choice--here, to the Board's expert judgment about which interpretation fits best with, and makes most sense of, the statutory scheme.
     Begin by reading the statute from the top--the part favoring the respondents.  Section 1153(h)(3)'s first clause--"If the age of an alien is determined under paragraph (1) to be 21 years of age or older for the purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d)"--states a condition that every aged-out beneficiary of a preference petition satisfies.  That is because all those beneficiaries have had their ages "determined under paragraph (1)" (and have come up wanting): Recall that the age formula of §1153(h)(1) applies to each alien child who originally qualified (under "subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d)") as the principal beneficiary of an F2A petition or the derivative beneficiary of any family preference petition.  On its own, then, §1153(h)(3)'s opening clause encompasses the respondents' sons and daughters, along with every other once-young beneficiary of a family preference petition now on the wrong side of 21.  If the next phrase said something like "the alien shall be treated as though still a minor" (much as the CSPA did to ensure U. S. citizens' children, qualifying as "immediate relatives," would stay forever young, see supra, at 7-8), all those aged-out beneficiaries would prevail in this case.
     But read on, because §1153(h)(3)'s second clause instead prescribes a remedy containing its own limitation on the eligible class of recipients.  "[T]he alien's petition," that part provides, "shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date."  That statement directs immigration officials to take the initial petition benefitting an alien child, and now that he has turned 21, "convert[ ]" that same petition from a category for children to an "appropriate category" for adults (while letting him keep the old priority date).  The "conversion," in other words, is merely from one category to another; it does not entail any change in the petition, including its sponsor, let alone any new filing.  And more, that category shift is to be "automatic"--that is, one involving no additional decisions, contingencies, or delays.  See, e.g., Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary 140 (2d ed. 2001) (defining "automatic" as "having the capability of starting, operating, moving, etc., independently"); The American Heritage Dictionary 122 (4th ed. 2000) ("[a]cting or operating in a manner essentially independent of external influence").  The operation described is, then, a mechanical cut-and-paste job--moving a petition, without any substantive alteration, from one (no-longer-appropriate, child-based) category to another (now-appropriate, adult) compartment.  And so the aliens who may benefit from §1153(h)(3)'s back half are only those for whom that procedure is possible.  The clause offers relief not to every aged-out beneficiary, but just to those covered by petitions that can roll over, seamlessly and promptly, into a category for adult relatives.
     That understanding of §1153(h)(3)'s "automatic conversion" language matches the exclusive way immigration law used the term when Congress enacted the CSPA.  For many years before then (as today), a regulation entitled "Automatic conversion of preference classification" instructed immigration officials to change the preference category of a petition's principal beneficiary when either his or his sponsor's status changed in specified ways.  See 8 CFR §§204.2(i)(1)-(3) (2002).  For example, the regulation provided that when a U. S. citizen's child aged out, his "immediate relative" petition converted to an F1 petition, with his original priority date left intact.  See §204.2(i)(2).  Similarly, when a U. S. citizen's adult son married, his original petition migrated from F1 to F3, see §204.2(i)  (1)(i); when, conversely, such a person divorced, his petition converted from F3 to F1, see §204.2(i)(1)(iii); and when a minor child's LPR parent became a citizen, his F2A petition became an "immediate relative" petition, see §204.2(i)(3)--all again with their original priority dates.  Most notable here, what all of those authorized changes had in common was that they could occur without any change in the petitioner's identity, or otherwise in the petition's content.  In each circumstance, the "automatic conversion" entailed nothing more than picking up the petition from one category and dropping it into another for which the alien now qualified.10
     Congress used the word "conversion" (even without the modifier "automatic") in the identical way in two other sections of the CSPA.  See Law v. Siegel, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (slip op., at 7) (2014) ("[W]ords repeated in different parts of the same statute generally have the same meaning").  Section 2 refers to occasions on which, by virtue of the above-described regulation, a petition "converted" from F2A to the "immediate relative" category because of the sponsor parent's naturalization, or from the F3 to the F1 box because of the beneficiary's divorce.  8 U. S. C. §§1151(f )(2), (3).  Then, in §6, Congress authorized an additional conversion of the same nature: It directed that when an LPR parent-sponsor naturalizes, the petition he has filed for his adult son or daughter "shall be converted," unless the beneficiary objects, from the F2B to the F1 compartment--again with the original priority date unchanged.  8 U. S. C. §§1154(k)(1)-(3).  (That opt-out mechanism itself underscores the otherwise mechanical nature of the conversion.)  Once again, in those cases, all that is involved is a recategorization--moving the same petition, filed by the same petitioner, from one preference classification to another, so as to reflect a change in either the alien's or his sponsor's status.  In the rest of the CSPA, as in the prior immigration regulation, that is what "conversion" means.
     And if the term meant more than that in §1153(h)(3), it would undermine the family preference system's core premise: that each immigrant must have a qualified sponsor.  Consider the alternative addressed in Wang--if "automatic conversion" were also to encompass the substitution of a new petitioner for the old one, to make sure the aged-out alien's petition fits into a new preference category.  In a case like Wang, recall, the original sponsor does not have a legally recognized relationship with the aged-out derivative beneficiary (they are aunt and niece); accordingly, the derivative's father--the old principal beneficiary--must be swapped in as the petitioner to enable his daughter to immigrate.  But what if, at that point, the father is in no position to sponsor his daughter?  Suppose he decided in the end not to immigrate, or failed to pass border inspection, or died in the meanwhile.  Or suppose he entered the country, but cannot sponsor a relative's visa because he lacks adequate proof of parentage or committed a disqualifying crime. See §1154(a)(1)(B)(i)(II); 8 CFR §204.2(d)(2); supra, at 4.  Or suppose he does not want to--or simply cannot--undertake the significant financial obligations that the law imposes on someone petitioning for an alien's admission.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1183a(a)(1)(A), (f )(1)(D); supra, at 5.  Immigration officials cannot assume away all those potential barriers to entry: That would run counter to the family preference system's insistence that a qualified and willing sponsor back every immigrant visa.  See §§1154(a)-(b).  But neither can they easily, or perhaps at all, figure out whether such a sponsor exists unless he files and USCIS approves a new petition--the very thing §1153(h)(3) says is not required.
     Indeed, in cases like Wang, the problem is broader: Under the statute's most natural reading, a new qualified sponsor will hardly ever exist at the moment the petition is to be "converted."  Section 1153(h)(3), to be sure, does not explicitly identify that point in time.  But §1153(h)(1) specifies the date on which a derivative beneficiary is deemed to have either aged out or not: It is "the date on which an immigrant visa number became available for the alien's parent."  See §§1153(h)(1)(A)-(B).  Because that statutory aging out is the one and only thing that triggers automatic conversion for eligible aliens, the date of conversion is best viewed as the same.  That reading, moreover, comports with the "automatic conversion" regulation on which Congress drew in enacting the CSPA, see supra, at 16-17: The rule authorizes conversions "upon" or "as of the date" of the relevant change in the alien's status (including turning 21))--regardless when  USCIS may receive notice of the change.  8 CFR §204.2(i); but cf. post, at 14 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (wrongly stating that under that rule conversion occurs upon the agency's receipt of proof of the change).  But on that date, no new petitioner will be ready to step into the old one's shoes if such a substitution is needed to fit an aged-out beneficiary into a different category.  The beneficiary's parent, on the day a "visa number became available," cannot yet be an LPR or citizen; by definition, she has just become eligible to apply for a visa, and faces a wait of at least several months before she can sponsor an alien herself.  Nor, except in a trivial number of cases, is any hitherto unidentified person likely to have a legally recognized relationship to the alien.  So if an aged-out beneficiary has lost his qualifying connection to the original petitioner, no conversion to an "appropriate category" can take place at the requisite time.  As long as immigration law demands some valid sponsor, §1153(h)(3) cannot give such an alien the designated relief.
     On the above account--in which conversion entails a simple reslotting of an original petition into a now-appropriate category--§1153(h)(3)'s back half provides a remedy to two groups of aged-out beneficiaries.  First, any child who was the principal beneficiary of an F2A petition (filed by an LPR parent on his behalf) can take advantage of that clause after turning 21.  He is, upon aging out, the adult son of the same LPR who sponsored him as a child; his petition can therefore be moved seamlessly--without the slightest alteration or delay--into the F2B category.  Second, any child who was the derivative beneficiary of an F2A petition (filed by an LPR on his spouse's behalf) can similarly claim relief, provided that under the statute, he is not just the spouse's but also the petitioner's child.11  Such an alien is identically situated to the aged-out principal beneficiary of an F2A petition; indeed, for the price of another filing fee, he could just as easily have been named a principal himself.  He too is now the adult son of the original LPR petitioner, and his petition can also be instantly relabeled an F2B petition, without any need to substitute a new sponsor or make other revisions.  In each case, the alien had a qualifying relationship before he was 21 and retains it afterward; all that must be changed is the label affixed to his petition.12
     In contrast, as the Board held in Wang, the aged-out derivative beneficiaries of the other family preference categories--like the sons and daughters of the respondents here--cannot qualify for "automatic conversion."  Recall that the respondents themselves were principal beneficiaries of F3 and F4 petitions; their children, when under 21, counted as derivatives, but lacked any qualifying preference relationship of their own.  The F3 derivatives were the petitioners' grandsons and granddaughters; the F4 derivatives their nephews and nieces; and none of those are relationships Congress has recognized as warranting a family preference.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1153(a)(3)-(4).  Now that the respondents' children have turned 21, and they can no longer ride on their parents' coattails, that lack of independent eligibility makes a difference.  For them, unlike for the F2A beneficiaries, it is impossible simply to slide the original petitions from a (no-longer-appropriate) child category to a (now-appropriate) adult one.  To fit into a new category, those aged-out derivatives, like Wang's daughter, must have new sponsors--and for all the reasons already stated, that need means they cannot benefit from "automatic conversion."
     All that said, we hold only that §1153(h)(3) permits--not that it requires--the Board's decision to so distinguish among aged-out beneficiaries.  That is because, as we explained earlier, the two halves of §1153(h)(3) face in different directions.  See supra, at 14.  Section 1153(h)(3)'s first part--its conditional phrase--encompasses every aged-out beneficiary of a family preference petition, and thus points toward broad-based relief.  But as just shown, §1153(h)(3)'s second part--its remedial prescription--applies only to a narrower class of beneficiaries: those aliens who naturally qualify for (and so can be "automatically converted" to) a new preference classification when they age out.  Were there an interpretation that gave each clause full effect, the Board would have been required to adopt it.  But the ambiguity those ill-fitting clauses create instead left the Board with a choice--essentially of how to reconcile the statute's different commands.  The Board, recognizing the need to make that call, opted to abide by the inherent limits of §1153(h)(3)'s remedial clause, rather than go beyond those limits so as to match the sweep of the section's initial condition.  On the Board's reasoned view, the only beneficiaries entitled to statutory relief are those capable of obtaining the remedy designated.  When an agency thus resolves statutory tension, ordinary principles of administrative deference require us to defer.  See National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife, 551 U. S. 644, 666 (2007) (When a statutory scheme contains "a fundamental ambiguity" arising from "the differing mandates" of two provisions, "it is appropriate to look to the implementing agency's expert interpretation" to determine which "must give way").
III
     The respondents urge us to overturn the Board's judgment for three independent reasons.  First, and principally, they take issue with the Board's--and now our--view of the limits associated with "automatic conversion": They argue that every aged-out beneficiary's petition can "automatically be converted" to an "appropriate category," and that the two halves of §1153(h)(3) are thus reconcilable.  Second, the respondents contend that even if "automatic conversion" does not extend so far, §1153(h)(3) separately entitles each such beneficiary to the benefit of his original petition's priority date.  And third, they claim that the Board's way of resolving whatever ambiguity inheres in §1153(h)(3) is arbitrary and capricious.  The dissenting opinion reiterates the first two arguments, though with slight variation and in opposite order, while forgoing the third.  See post, at 9-19 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (hereinafter the dissent).  We find none of the contentions persuasive.
A
     The respondents (and the dissent) initially aver that every aged-out beneficiary (including their own sons and daughters) can "automatically be converted" to an "appropriate" immigration category, if only immigration officials try hard enough.  The Government, in the respondents' view, can accomplish that feat by substituting new sponsors for old ones, and by "managing the timing" of every conversion to ensure such a new petitioner exists on the relevant date.  Brief for Respondents 33.  And because, the respondents say, it is thus possible to align the two halves of §1153(h)(3)--even if through multiple administrative maneuvers--immigration officials are under an obligation to do so.  We disagree, for reasons that should sound familiar: Several are the same as those we have just given for upholding the Board's interpretation.  But still, we walk through the respondents' argument step-by-step, to show how far it departs from any ordinary understanding of "automatic conversion."
     The first (and necessary) premise of that argument does not augur well for the remainder: It is the view that the "automatic conversion" procedure permits a change in the petitioner's identity.  According to the respondents, the aged-out beneficiaries' parents, upon becoming LPRs, can be subbed in for the original sponsors (i.e., the beneficiaries' grandparents, aunts, and uncles), and the petitions then converted to the F2B category.  But as we have shown, the "automatic conversion" language--as most naturally read and as long used throughout immigration law--contemplates merely moving a petition into a new and valid category, not changing its most essential feature.  See supra, at 15-17.  That alone defeats the respondents' position.
     And a further problem follows--this one concerning the date of automatic conversion.  The respondents need that date to come at a time when the derivative beneficiaries' parents (the substitute petitioners) are already living in the United States as LPRs; otherwise, the petitions could not qualify for the F2B box.  In an attempt to make that possible, the respondents propose that conversion be viewed as taking place when "the derivative beneficiary's visa . . . application is adjudicated."  Brief for Respondents 29.  But as we have (again) demonstrated, the statute is best read as establishing a different date: that "on which an immigrant visa number became available for the alien's parent"--when, by definition, the parent is not yet an LPR.  §1153(h)(1); see supra, at 18-19.  That is the moment when a derivative ages out, which is the single change conversion reflects.  By contrast, the respondents' suggested date has no connection to that metamorphosis; the date of adjudication is merely when an immigration official later discovers that a child has turned 21.  And that date is itself fortuitous, reflecting no more than when an immigration officer got around to reviewing a visa application: The possibility of conversion would thus depend on bureaucratic vagaries attending the visa process.  So the respondents' mistaken view of the timing of conversion is another off-ramp from their argument.13
     Yet there is more--because even after substituting a new petitioner and delaying the conversion date in a way the statute does not contemplate, the respondents must propose yet further fixes to make "automatic" conversion work for their sons and daughters.  The respondents' next problem is that even on the conversion date they propose, most of them (and other derivatives' parents) were not yet LPRs, and so could not possibly be sponsors.  In the ordinary course, principal and derivative beneficiaries living abroad apply for their visas at the same time and go to the consulate together for back-to-back interviews.  See supra, at 6.  And even if the parent is approved first, that alone does not make her an LPR; she still must come to this country, demonstrate her continued eligibility, and pass an inspection.  See ibid.  Thus, the respondents must recommend changes to the visa process to get the timing to work--essentially, administrative juggling to hold off the derivative beneficiary's visa adjudication until his parent has become an LPR.  In particular, they suggest that the consular official defer the derivative's interview, or that the official nominally "reject the application" and then instruct the derivative to "reapply after the principal beneficiary immigrates."  Brief for Respondents 30.  But the need for that choreography (which, in any event, few if any of the respondents conformed to) renders the conversion process only less "automatic," because now it requires special intervention, purposeful delay, and deviation from standard administrative practice.  Conversion has become not a machine that would go of itself, but a process painstakingly managed.
     And after all this fancy footwork, the respondents' scheme still cannot succeed, because however long a visa adjudication is postponed, a derivative's parent may never become able to sponsor a relative's visa--and immigration officials cannot practicably tell whether a given parent has done so.  We have noted before the potential impediments to serving as a petitioner--including that a parent may not immigrate, may not qualify as a sponsor, or may not be able to provide the requisite financial support.  See supra, at 17-18.  The respondents offer no way to deal with those many contingencies.  Require the parent to submit a new petition?  But the entire point of automatic conversion (as the respondents themselves agree) is to obviate the need for such a document.  See Brief for Respondents 30, 42.  Investigate the parent's eligibility in some other way?  But even were that possible (which we doubt) such an inquiry would not square with the essential idea of an automatic process.  Disregard the possibility that no legal sponsor exists?  But then visas would go, inevitably and not infrequently, to ineligible aliens.  And so the workarounds have well and truly run out on the respondents' argument.14
     That leaves us with the same statutory inconsistency with which we began.  Having followed each step of the respondents' resourceful (if Rube Goldbergish) argument, we still see no way to apply the concept of automatic conversion to the respondents' children and others like them.  And that means we continue to face a statute whose halves do not correspond to each other--giving rise to an ambiguity that calls for Chevron deference.
B
     The respondents, however, have another idea for reconciling §1153(h)(3)'s front and back parts (and this back-up claim becomes the dissent's principal argument).  Recall that the section's remedial clause instructs that "the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."  The respondents (and the dissent) ask us to read the italicized language as conferring a benefit wholly independent of automatic conversion.  On that view, aged-out derivatives, even though ineligible for conversion, could "retain the[ir] original priority date[s]" if their parents file a new petition (as the respondents in fact did here "as a protective matter," Tr. of Oral Arg. 55).  And then, everyone encompassed in §1153(h)(3)'s first clause would get at least some form of relief (even if not both forms) from the section's second.  For this argument, the respondents principally rely on the word "and": "Where the word 'and' connects two" phrases as in §1153(h)(3)'s back half, the respondents contend, those terms "operate independently."  Brief for Respondents 39; see post, at 9.
     But the conjunction "and" does not necessarily disjoin two phrases in the way the respondents say.  In some sentences, no doubt, the respondents have a point.  They use as their primary example: "[I]f the boat takes on water, then you shall operate the bilge pump and you shall distribute life jackets."  Brief for Respondents 39; see also post, at 10 (offering further examples). We agree that "you shall distribute life jackets" functions in that sentence as an independent command.  But we can come up with many paired dictates in which the second is conditional on the first.  "If the price is reasonable, buy two tickets and save a receipt."  "If you have time this summer, read this book and give me a report."  Or, shades of this case: "If your cell-phone contract expires, buy a new phone and keep the old number."15  In each case, the second command functions only once the first is accomplished.  Whether "and" works in that way or in the respondents' depends, like many questions of usage, on the context.  See, e.g., Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories, Ltd. v. Novo Nordisk A/S, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012).
     Here, we think, context compels the Board's view that the instructions work in tandem.  The first phrase instructs immigration officials to convert a petition (when an "appropriate category" exists); the next clarifies that such a converted petition will retain the original priority date, rather than receive a new one corresponding to the date of conversion.  That reading comports with the way retention figures in other statutory and regulatory provisions respecting "conversions"; there too, retention of a priority date is conditional on a conversion occurring.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1154(k)(1)-(3); 8 CFR §204.2(i); supra, at 16.  The respondents wish to unhook the "retention" phrase from that mooring, and use it to explain what will attend a different event--that is, the filing of a new petition.  But that is to make "retention" conditional on something the statute nowhere mentions--a highly improbable thing for Congress to have done.  (If, once again, a teacher says to "read this book and give me a report," no one would think he wants a report on some unidentified subject.)  And indeed, the respondents' and dissent's own examples prove this point: In not a single one of their proffered sentences is the second command contingent on the occurrence of some additional, unstated event, as it would have to be under the respondents' construction of §1153(h)(3); rather, each such command (e.g., "distribute life jackets") flows directly from the stated condition (e.g., "if the boat takes on water").  So by far the more natural understanding of §1153(h)(3)'s text is that retention follows conversion, and nothing else.
     The respondents' contrary view would also engender unusual results, introducing uncertainty into the immigration system's operation and thus interfering with statutory goals.  Were their theory correct, an aged-out alien could hold on to a priority date for years or even decades while waiting for a relative to file a new petition.  Even if that filing happened, say, 20 years after the alien aged out, the alien could take out his priority-date token, and assert a right to spring to the front of any visa line.  At that point, USCIS could well have a hard time confirming the old priority date, in part because the names of derivative beneficiaries need not be listed on a visa petition.  And the possibility of such leap-frogging from many years past would impede USCIS's publication of accurate waiting times.  As far as we know, immigration law nowhere else allows an alien to keep in his pocket a priority date untethered to any existing valid petition.  Without some clearer statement, we cannot conclude Congress intended here to create such a free-floating, open-ended entitlement to a defunct petition's priority date.  See Wang, 25 I. & N. Dec., at 36.16
C
     Finally, the respondents contend that even if §1153(h)(3) points at once in two directions--toward a broader scope in its first half and a narrower one in its second--the BIA acted unreasonably in choosing the more restrictive reading.  In their view, the Board has offered no valid reason, consistent with "the purposes and concerns of the immigration laws," to treat their own sons and daughters less favorably than aliens who were principal and derivative beneficiaries of F2A petitions.  Brief for Respondents 47.  Indeed, the respondents suggest that the BIA, "for its own unfathomable reasons, disapproves of Congress's decision to allow any aged-out" aliens to get relief, and has thus "limited [§1153(h)(3)] to as few derivative beneficiaries as possible."  Id., at 55.
     We cannot agree.  At the least, the Board's interpretation has administrative simplicity to recommend it.  Under that view, immigration authorities need only perform the kind of straightforward (i.e., "automatic") conversion they have done for decades--moving a petition from one box to another to reflect a given status change like aging out.  See Wang, 25 I. & N. Dec., at 36.  The respondents, as we have shown, would transform conversion into a managed, multi-stage process, requiring immigration and consular officials around the world to sequence and delay every aged-out alien's visa adjudication until they are able to confirm that one of his parents had become a qualifying and willing F2B petitioner.  And according to the Government's (incomplete) statistics, that would have to happen in, at a minimum, tens of thousands of cases every year.  See Reply Brief 18, n. 13.
     Still more important, the Board offered a cogent argument, reflecting statutory purposes, for distinguishing between aged-out beneficiaries of F2A petitions and the respondents' sons and daughters.  See Wang, 35 I. & N. Dec., at 38.  As earlier explained, the F2A beneficiaries have all had a qualifying relationship with an LPR for the entire period they have waited in line--i.e., since their original priority dates.  See supra, at 19-20.  That means that when immigration authorities convert their petitions, they will enter the F2B line at the same place as others who have had a comparable relationship for an equal time.  The conversion thus fits with the immigration law's basic first-come-first-served rule.  See 8 U. S. C. §1153(e); supra, at 4.  By contrast, the derivative beneficiaries of F3 and F4 petitions, like the respondents' sons and daughters, lacked any qualifying relationship with a citizen or LPR during the period they waited in line.  See supra, at 20-21.  They were, instead, the grandchildren, nieces, or nephews of citizens, and those relationships did not independently entitle them to visas.  If such aliens received relief under §1153(h)(3), they would jump over thousands of others in the F2B line who had a qualifying relationship with an LPR for a far longer time.  That displacement would, the Board reasonably found, scramble the priority order Congress prescribed.
     The argument to the contrary assumes that the respondents' sons and daughters should "receive credit" for all the time the respondents themselves stood in line.  Brief for Respondents 50.  But first, the time the respondents spent waiting for a visa may diverge substantially from the time their children did.  Suppose, for example, that one of the respondents had stood in the F4 queue for 15 years, and with just 4 years to go, married someone with a 17-year-old son.  Under the respondents' reading, that derivative beneficiary, after aging out, would get the full benefit of his new parent's wait, and so displace many thousands of aliens who (unlike him) had stood in an immigration queue for nearly two decades.  And second, even when the derivative qualified as such for all the time his parent stood in line, his status throughout that period hinged on his being that parent's minor child.  If his parent had obtained a visa before he aged out, he would have been eligible for a visa too, because the law does not demand that a prospective immigrant abandon a minor child.  But if the parent had died while waiting for a visa, or had been found ineligible, or had decided not to immigrate after all, the derivative would have gotten nothing for the time spent in line.  See supra, at 5-6.  Similarly, the Board could reasonably conclude, he should not receive credit for his parent's wait when he has become old enough to live independently.  In the unavoidably zero-sum world of allocating a limited number of visas, the Board could decide that he belongs behind any alien who has had a lengthier stand-alone entitlement to immigrate.
IV
     This is the kind of case Chevron was built for.  Whatever Congress might have meant in enacting §1153(h)(3), it failed to speak clearly.  Confronted with a self-contradictory, ambiguous provision in a complex statutory scheme, the Board chose a textually reasonable construction consonant with its view of the purposes and policies underlying immigration law.  Were we to overturn the Board in that circumstance, we would assume as our own the responsible and expert agency's role.  We decline that path, and defer to the Board.
     We therefore reverse the judgment of the Ninth Circuit and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Roberts, C. J., concurring in judgment
 573 U. S. ____ (2014)
No. 12-930
LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION  SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v. ROSALINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
 [June 9, 2014]

     Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia joins, concurring in the judgment.
     I agree with much of the plurality's opinion and with its conclusion that the Board of Immigration Appeals reasonably interpreted 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3).  I write separately because I take a different view of what makes this provision "ambiguous" under Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843 (1984).
     As the plurality reads section 1153(h)(3), the statute's two clauses address the issue before the Court "in divergent ways" and "do not easily cohere with each other."  Ante, at 14.  For the plurality, the first clause looks "toward the sweeping relief the respondents propose, which would reach every aged-out beneficiary of a family preference petition," while the second clause offers narrower relief that can help "only a subset of those beneficiaries."  Ibid.  Such "ill-fitting clauses," the plurality says, "left the Board with a choice--essentially of how to reconcile the statute's different commands."  Ante, at 21.
     To the extent the plurality's opinion could be read to suggest that deference is warranted because of a direct conflict between these clauses, that is wrong.  Courts defer to an agency's reasonable construction of an ambiguous statute because we presume that Congress intended to assign responsibility to resolve the ambiguity to the agency.  Chevron, supra, at 843-844.  But when Congress assigns to an agency the responsibility for deciding whether a particular group should get relief, it does not do so by simultaneously saying that the group should and that it should not.  Direct conflict is not ambiguity, and the resolution of such a conflict is not statutory construction but legislative choice.  Chevron is not a license for an agency to repair a statute that does not make sense.1
     I see no conflict, or even "internal tension," ante, at 14, in section 1153(h)(3).  See FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U. S. 120, 133 (2000) (we must "interpret the statute 'as a symmetrical and coherent regulatory scheme,' and 'fit, if possible, all parts into a[ ] harmonious whole' " (citation omitted)).
     The statute reads:
     "If the age of an alien is determined under [section 1153(h)(1)] to be 21 years of age or older for the purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d) of this section, the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."  §1153(h)(3).
     The first clause states a condition--one that beneficiaries from any preference category can meet--and thereby defines the persons potentially affected by this provision.  But the clause does not grant anything to anyone.  I disagree with the plurality that the first clause "points toward broad-based relief," ante, at 21, because I do not think the first clause points toward any relief at all.2
     Imagine a provision of the Tax Code that read: "If a student is determined to be enrolled at an accredited university, the student's cost of off-campus housing shall be deductible on her tax return."  It would be immediately apparent from that provision that an enrolled student who lives on campus is not entitled to the deduction, even though the student falls within the conditional first clause.  And yet no one would describe the two clauses as being in tension.  If the Internal Revenue Service then interpreted the term "cost of off-campus housing" to exclude payments by a student who rents a home from his parents, a court would determine whether that interpretation was reasonable.  The same is true in this case.3
     The particular benefit provided by section 1153(h)(3) is found exclusively in the second clause--the only operative provision.  There we are told what an aged-out beneficiary (from whatever preference category) is entitled to: His petition "shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date."  §1153(h)(3).  But automatic conversion is not possible for every beneficiary in every preference category, as the plurality convincingly demonstrates.  Ante, at 15-19.  Automatic conversion requires, at minimum, that the beneficiary have his own sponsor, who demonstrates that he is eligible to act as a sponsor, and who commits to providing financial support for the beneficiary.  Ante, at 18.  Some aged-out children will not meet those prerequisites, and they cannot benefit from automatic conversion even under respondents' interpretation of the statute.4
     Beyond those requirements, however, Congress did not speak clearly to which petitions can "automatically be converted."  §1153(h)(3).  Whatever other interpretations of that provision might be possible, it was reasonable, for the reasons explained by the plurality, for the Board to interpret section 1153(h)(3) to provide relief only to a child who was a principal or derivative beneficiary of an F2A petition.  That interpretation is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the statutory terms, with the established meaning of automatic conversion in immigration law, and with the structure of the family-based immigration system.  Ante, at 15-20.  It also avoids the problems that would flow from respondents' proposed alternative interpretations, including the suggestion that retention of the original priority date provides a benefit wholly separate from automatic conversion.  Ante, at 18-19, 22-32.
     I concur in the judgment.

Alito, J., dissenting
 573 U. S. ____ (2014)
No. 12-930
LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION  SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v. ROSALINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 9, 2014]

     Justice Alito, dissenting.
     I agree with many of Justice Sotomayor's criticisms of the plurality opinion.  I also agree with The Chief Justice's critique of the plurality's suggestion that, when two halves of a statute "do not easily cohere with each other," an agency administering the statute is free to decide which half it will obey.  Ante, at 14.  After all, "[d]irect conflict is not ambiguity, and the resolution of such conflict is not statutory construction but legislative choice."  Ante, at 2 (Roberts, C. J., concurring in judgment).  While I, like Justice Sotomayor, would affirm the Court of Appeals, my justification for doing so differs somewhat from hers.
     As I see it, the question before us is whether there is or is not an "appropriate category" to which the petitions for respondents' children may be converted.  If there is, the agency was obligated by the clear text of 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3) to convert the petitions and leave the children with their original priority dates.  Any such conversion would be "automatic," because the agency's obligation to convert the petitions follows inexorably, and without need for any additional action on the part of either respondents or their children, from the fact that the children's ages have been calculated to be 21 or older.1  If there is not an appropriate category, then the agency was not required to convert the petitions.
     By the time respondents became legal permanent residents and filed new petitions for their children (if not sooner), there existed an appropriate category to which the original petitions could be converted.  That is because at that point the children all qualified for F2B preference status, as unmarried, adult children of legal permanent residents.  Accordingly, the agency should have converted respondents' children's petitions and allowed them to retain their original priority dates.2
     Section 1153(h)(3) is brief and cryptic.  It may well contain a great deal of ambiguity, which the Board of Immigration Appeals in its expertise is free to resolve, so long as its resolution is a "permissible construction of the statute."  Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843 (1984).  But the statute is clear on at least one point: "If the age of an alien is determined under [§1153(h)(1)] to be 21 years of age or older . . . , the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition" (emphasis added).  The Board was not free to disregard this clear statutory command.

Sotomayor, J., dissenting
 573 U. S. ____ (2014)
No. 12-930
LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION  SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v. ROSALINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 9, 2014]

     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer joins, and with whom Justice Thomas joins except as to footnote 3, dissenting.
     Although the workings of our Nation's immigration system are often complex, the narrow question of statutory interpretation at the heart of this case is straightforward.  Which aged-out children are entitled to retain their priority dates: derivative beneficiaries of visa petitions in all five family-preference categories, or derivative beneficiaries of petitions in only one category?  The initial clause of 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3) provides a clear answer: Aged-out children may retain their priority dates so long as they meet a single condition--they must be "determined . . . to be 21 years of age or older for purposes of" derivative beneficiary status.  Because all five categories of aged-out children satisfy this condition, all are entitled to relief.
     Notwithstanding this textual command, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) ruled that four of the five categories of aged-out children to whom §1153(h)(3) unambiguously promises priority date retention, are, in fact, entitled to no relief at all.  See Matter of Wang, 25 I. & N. Dec. 28, 38-39 (2009).  The Court defers to that interpretation today.  In doing so, the Court does not identify any ambiguity in the dispositive initial clause of §1153(h)(3).  Indeed, it candidly admits that the clause mandates relief for "every aged-out beneficiary of a family-preference petition" in any of the five categories.  Ante, at 21.  The Court nevertheless holds that the BIA was free to ignore this unambiguous text on the ground that §1153(h)(3) also offers aged-out derivative beneficiaries a type of relief--automatic conversion--that it thinks can apply only to one of the five categories.  The Court thus perceives a conflict in the statute that, in its view, permits the BIA to override §1153(h)(3)'s initial eligibility clause.
     In reaching this conclusion, the Court fails to follow a cardinal rule of statutory interpretation: When deciding whether Congress has "specifically addressed the question at issue," thereby leaving no room for an agency to fill a statutory gap, courts must "interpret the statute 'as a . . . coherent regulatory scheme' and 'fit, if possible, all parts into [a] harmonious whole.' "  FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U. S. 120, 132-133 (2000) (citation omitted).  Because the Court and the BIA ignore obvious ways in which §1153(h)(3) can operate as a coherent whole and instead construe the statute as a self-contradiction that was broken from the moment Congress wrote it, I respectfully dissent.
I
     Under Chevron, the first question we ask when reviewing an agency's construction of a statute is whether "Congress has directly spoken to the precise question at issue."  Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 842 (1984).  If it has, then "the court, as well as the agency, must give effect to th[at] unambiguously expressed intent."  Id., at 842-843.  Congress has spoken directly to the question in this case.
     United States citizens and lawful permanent residents (LPRs) may petition for certain relatives who reside abroad (known as the "principal beneficiaries" of such petitions) to receive immigrant visas.   Congress has defined five categories of eligible relatives--referred to as family-preference categories--with annual limits on the number of visas that may be issued within each category.1  Because the demand for visas outstrips supply, the wait for a visa can often last many years.  While a principal beneficiary waits, her place in line is determined based on her "priority date," the date on which her petition was filed.  See §1153(e)(1); 8 CFR §204.1(b) (2014); 22 CFR §42.53(a) (2013).  Priority dates are therefore crucial--the earlier one's priority date, the sooner one's place will come up in line and a visa will be available.  Significantly, when the wait ends and a principal beneficiary finally becomes eligible to apply for a visa, 8 U. S. C. §1153(d) enables the beneficiary's spouse and minor children (known as "derivative beneficiaries") to do so too.
     This case arises from a common problem: Given the lengthy period prospective immigrants must wait for a visa, a principal beneficiary's child--although younger than 21 when her parent's petition was initially filed--often will have turned 21 by the time the parent's priority date comes up in line.  Such a child is said to have "aged out" of derivative beneficiary treatment under §1153(d).  By way of example, respondent Norma Uy was the principal beneficiary of an F4 family-preference petition filed by her U. S. citizen sister in February 1981.  That petition listed Norma's daughter, Ruth, who was then two years old, as a derivative beneficiary.  If Norma had reached the front of the visa line at any time before Ruth's 21st birthday, §1153(d) would have enabled Ruth to accompany Norma to the United States.  Unfortunately, it took more than two decades for Norma's priority date to become current, by which point Ruth was 23 and thus too old for derivative beneficiary status under §1153(d).  Norma therefore immigrated alone to the United States, where she filed a new F2B petition (for unmarried children of LPRs) on Ruth's behalf.  Before §1153(h)(3) was enacted, however, an immigrant in Ruth's position would have been unable to retain the February 1981 priority date from her original petition; the law would have instead required her to receive a new priority date all the way at the back of the F2B line.
     Congress responded to this problem by enacting §1153(h)(3), a provision entitled "[r]etention of priority date."  It states: 
     "If the age of an alien is determined under [the formula specified in] paragraph (1)[2] to be 21 years of age or older for the purpos[e] of . . . [§1153(d)] of this section, the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."
     The provision's structure is crucial to its meaning.  The initial clause (call it the "eligibility clause") specifies who is eligible for relief.  The concluding clause (call it the "relief clause") describes the two forms of relief to which eligible persons are entitled.  As the title of the provision suggests, the main form of relief is the right of an aged-out derivative beneficiary to retain the priority date of her original petition.  In Ruth Uy's case, such relief would mean the difference between resuming her wait near the front of the F2B line (which would allow her to receive a visa in short order) and being sent to the back of the line (where she would potentially have to wait an additional 27 years).  Brief for Respondents 52.
     The question in this case is which aged-out beneficiaries of family-preference petitions are eligible for priority date retention: the aged-out beneficiaries of petitions in all five family-preference categories (which would include respondents' children, who were derivative beneficiaries of F3 and F4 petitions for adult children and adult siblings of U. S. citizens, respectively), or the aged-out beneficiaries of only F2A petitions for spouses and children of LPRs (the interpretation offered by the BIA)?
     Congress answered that question in §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause, which specifies that relief is to be conferred on any immigrant who has been "determined under [the formula specified in] paragraph (1) to be 21 years of age or older" for the purpose of §1153(d).  As the plurality concedes, this clause "states a condition that every aged-out beneficiary of a preference petition satisfies"--that is, it makes eligible for relief aged-out children within each of the F1, F2A, F2B, F3, and F4 categories.  Ante, at 14.
     Congress made this clear in two mutually reinforcing ways.  First, by referring to the formula set forth in "paragraph (1)," the statute incorporates that paragraph's cross-reference to §1153(h)(2).  Section 1153(h)(2) in turn defines the set of covered petitions to include, "with respect to an alien child who is a derivative beneficiary under [§1153(d)], a petition filed . . . for classification of the alien's parent under [§1153(a)]."  And §1153(a) encompasses all five family-preference categories.  See §§1153(a)(1)-(4).  Second, §1153(h)(3) promises relief to those who are found to be 21 "for the purpos[e] of . . . [§1153](d)," the provision governing derivative beneficiaries.  And that provision also unambiguously covers all five family-preference categories.  See §1153(d) (a minor child is "entitled to the same status" as a parent who is the principal beneficiary of a petition filed under §1153(a)); §1153(a) (setting forth the five family-preference categories).
     In short, §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause answers the precise question in this case: Aged-out beneficiaries within all five categories are entitled to relief.  "[T]he intent of Congress is clear," so "that is the end of the matter."  Chevron, 467 U. S., at 842.
II
A
     Because it concedes that §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause unambiguously "encompasses every aged-out beneficiary of a family-preference petition," ante, at 21, the plurality tries to fit this case into a special pocket of Chevron jurisprudence in which it says we must defer to an agency's decision to ignore a clear statutory command due to a conflict between that command and another statutory provision.  See ante, at 14, 21.  Thus, unlike in the usual Chevron case, where ambiguity derives from the fact that the text does not speak with sufficient specificity to the question at issue, the plurality argues that this is a case in which ambiguity can only arise--if it is to arise at all--if Congress has spoken clearly on the issue in diametrically opposing ways.3  As the plurality frames it, §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility and relief clauses are "Janus-faced," and that conflict "makes possible alternative reasonable constructions."  Ante, at 14.
     In rushing to find a conflict within the statute, the plurality neglects a fundamental tenet of statutory interpretation: We do not lightly presume that Congress has legislated in self-contradicting terms.  See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 180 (2012) ("The provisions of a text should be interpreted in a way that renders them compatible, not contradictory. . . . [T]here can be no justification for needlessly rendering provisions in conflict if they can be interpreted harmoniously").  That is especially true where, as here, the conflict that Congress supposedly created is not between two different statutes or even two separate provisions within a single statute, but between two clauses in the same sentence.  See ibid. ("[I]t is invariably true that intelligent drafters do not contradict themselves").  Thus, time and again we have stressed our duty to "fit, if possible, all parts [of a statute] into [a] harmonious whole."  FTC v. Mandel Brothers, Inc., 359 U. S. 385, 389 (1959); see also Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 551 (1974) (when two provisions "are capable of co-existence, it is the duty of the courts . . . to regard each as effective").  In reviewing an agency's construction of a statute, courts "must," we have emphasized, "interpret the statute 'as a . . . coherent regulatory scheme' " rather than an internally inconsistent muddle, at war with itself and defective from the day it was written.  Brown & Williamson, 529 U. S., at 133.  And in doing so, courts should "[e]mplo[y] traditional tools of statutory construction."  INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca, 480 U. S. 421, 446 (1987).  Each of these cautions springs from a common well: As judicious as it can be to defer to administrative agencies, our foremost duty is, and always has been, to give effect to the law as drafted by Congress.
     The plurality contends that deference is appropriate here because, in its view, 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3)'s two clauses are "self-contradictory."  Ante, at 33.  But far from it being unworkable (or even difficult) for the agency to obey both clauses, traditional tools of statutory construction reveal that §1153(h)'s clauses are entirely compatible.
B
     The plurality argues that although §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause clearly encompasses aged-out beneficiaries within all five preference categories, the relief clause implies a conflicting "limitation on the eligible class of recipients."  Ante, at 15.  The plurality infers that limitation from two premises.  First, it contends that no aged-out child may retain her priority date unless her petition is also eligible for automatic conversion.  And second, it asserts that only aged-out F2A beneficiaries may receive automatic conversion.  As a result, the plurality concludes, it was reasonable for the BIA to exclude aged-out children in the four other categories from receiving both automatic conversion and priority date retention, thereby rendering §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause defunct.
     The plurality's conclusion is wrong because its premises are wrong.  For one, §1153(h)(3) is naturally read to confer priority date retention as an independent form of relief to all aged-out children, regardless of whether automatic conversion is separately available.  And even if that were wrong, the plurality's supposition that only F2A beneficiaries can receive automatic conversion is incorrect on its own terms.  Because either of these interpretations would treat §1153(h)(3) as a coherent whole, the BIA's construction was impermissible. 
1
     The most obvious flaw in the plurality's analysis is its presumption that §1153(h)(3) permits an aged-out child to retain her original priority date only if her petition can be automatically converted.  That is incorrect for many reasons.
     When an immigrant is determined to have aged out of derivative beneficiary status, §1153(h)(3) prescribes two forms of relief: "[T]he alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."  We have held that when a statute provides two forms of relief in this manner, joined by the conjunction "and," the two remedies are "distinct."  United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235, 241-242 (1989).  That understanding makes particular sense here, where Congress used the mandatory word "shall" twice, once before each form of relief.  See Lexecon Inc. v. Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, 523 U. S. 26, 35 (1998) ("[T]he mandatory [term] 'shall' . . . normally creates an obligation impervious to judicial discretion").  Moreover, the two "shall" commands operate on different subjects, further reinforcing that they prescribe distinct remedies: An aged-out "alien's petition shall automatically be converted," but it is "the alien" herself who, in all events, "shall retain" her original priority date.  §1153(h)(3) (emphasis added).
     The plurality responds with a series of examples in which the word "and" is used to join two commands, one of which is--as the plurality asserts here--dependent on another.  Ante, at 28, and n. 15.  But as the plurality recognizes, ante, at 28, that is hardly the only way the word can be used.  For example: "If today's baseball game is rained out, your ticket shall automatically be converted to a ticket for next Saturday's game, and you shall retain your free souvenir from today's game."  Or: "If you provide the DMV with proof of your new address, your voter registration shall automatically be converted to the correct polling location, and you shall receive in the mail an updated driver's license."  It is plain in both of these examples that the two commands are distinct--the fan in the first example can keep her free souvenir even if she cannot attend next Saturday's game; the new resident will receive an updated driver's license even if she is ineligible to vote.  What the plurality does not explain is why we should forgo the same understanding of §1153(h)(3)'s relief clause when that would treat the statute as a coherent whole (and when the plurality's alternative interpretation would render the statute a walking self-contradiction within the span of a few words).
     With the text unavailing, the plurality turns to a policy argument.  The plurality worries that if automatic conversion and priority date retention are independent benefits, aged-out beneficiaries will be able to "hold on to a priority date for years . . . while waiting for a relative to file a new petition," which might hamper U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) operations.  Ante, at 29-30.  But the plurality's fears of administrative inconvenience are belied by the fact that USCIS has administered priority date retention in exactly this manner for years, with no apparent problems.  Well before §1153(h)(3) was enacted, a regulation provided aged-out F2A derivative beneficiaries the ability to retain their priority dates without also providing automatic conversion.  See 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4) (permitting priority date retention after a "separate petition" is filed); 57 Fed. Reg. 41053, 41059 (1992) (adopting this provision).  Indeed, the USCIS continues to instruct field officers that a "separate petition" must be filed in order for such beneficiaries to "retain" their "original priority date[s]."  Adjudicator's Field Manual, ch. 21.2(c)(5), online at http://www.uscis.gov/iframe/ilink/docView/ AFM/HTML/AFM/0-0-0-1.html (all Internet materials as visited June 5, 2014, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).  The notion that it is somehow impossible for an immigrant to retain her priority date contingent upon the filing of a separate petition is therefore contradicted by years of agency experience.4
     In the end, the plurality suggests that we should defer to the BIA's all-or-nothing approach because "context compels" it.  Ante, at 28.  Yet fatally absent from the plurality's discussion of context is any mention of the first clause of the very same provision, which, as the plurality admits, unambiguously confers relief upon all five categories of aged-out children.  That clause is dispositive, because--assuming that F2A beneficiaries alone can receive automatic conversion--a reading that treats automatic conversion and priority date retention as independent benefits is the only one that would "produc[e] a substantive effect that is compatible with the rest of the law."  United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v. Timbers of Inwood Forest Associates, Ltd., 484 U. S. 365, 371 (1988); see also Home Builders, 551 U. S., at 666 (" 'It is a "fundamental canon of statutory construction that the words of a statute must be read in their context and with a view to their place in the overall statutory scheme" ' ").
2
     Even if it were somehow impossible for an aged-out child to retain her priority date independently of automatic conversion, the plurality is wrong to view automatic conversion as a benefit that F2A beneficiaries alone may enjoy.
     Section 1153(h)(3) provides that if an aged-out child qualifies for relief under the statute's eligibility clause, "the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category."  Whether an aged-out beneficiary in a given preference category may enjoy this relief turns on how one understands the words "automatically" and "converted."  Because the statute does not define the terms, we apply their ordinary meaning.  See Burrage v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 6).
     The ordinary meaning of "automatic" is " 'having the capability of starting, operating, moving, etc., independently' " based upon some predetermined predicate event, with no "additional decisions, contingencies, or delays."  Ante, at 15 (quoting Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary 140 (2d ed. 2001)).  The ordinary meaning of "convert" is "to change (something) into a different form."  Id., at 444.  Here, the statute specifies the form into which an aged-out child's petition shall be changed: another petition in the "appropriate category."  §1153(h)(3).  Tying the terms together, then, "automatic conversion" means changing an old petition into a new petition in an appropriate category upon the occurrence of some predicate event, without a further decision or contingency.
     All aged-out beneficiaries can have their petitions automatically converted under this definition.  Perhaps most sensibly, all five categories of petitions may be converted to an appropriate category, without any further decision or contingency, upon a logical predicate event: when USCIS receives confirmation that an appropriate category exists.  To see how this would work, recall the case of Norma Uy, and her daughter, Ruth.  Norma was the principal beneficiary of an F4 petition filed by her U. S. citizen sister; Ruth was a derivative beneficiary of the same petition.  Because Ruth had aged out of derivative beneficiary status prior to Norma's reaching the front of the visa line, Norma immigrated to the United States without Ruth.  Once Norma became an LPR, however, she also became eligible to file a new petition on Ruth's behalf under the F2B category (unmarried adult children of LPRs), §1153(a)(2)(B).  Thus, once Norma provides confirmation of that eligibility to sponsor Ruth (i.e., that she is an LPR, that Ruth is her daughter, and that she has not committed disqualifying criminal conduct, see ante, at 4), Ruth's original F4 petition can automatically be converted to an F2B petition, with no additional decision or contingency.5
     Indeed, this is how USCIS already applies automatic conversion in other contexts.  For example, when an LPR has filed an F2A petition on behalf of a spouse or child, and the LPR subsequently becomes a U. S. citizen, a provision entitled "[a]utomatic conversion of preference classification," 8 CFR §204.2(i), permits the F2A petition to be automatically converted to an "immediate relative" petition, §204.2(i)(3).  See ante, at 16.  Significantly, the predicate event that triggers this conversion is the agency's receipt of proof that the petition's sponsor has become a U. S. citizen--proof, in other words, that there is an appropriate category into which the petition can be converted.6  Section 1153(h)(3)'s automatic conversion remedy can sensibly be administered in the same way.
     The plurality's contrary conclusion that automatic conversion is impossible for all but one category of family-preference petitions hinges on three basic misunderstandings.  First, the plurality contends that automatic conversion is triggered not by confirmation of the existence of an appropriate category, but rather by a different predicate event: the moment when " 'an immigrant visa number bec[omes] available for the alien's parent.' "  Ante, at 19.  This is a curious argument, not least because nothing in §1153(h)(3) suggests it.  That provision simply makes automatic conversion available "[i]f the age of an alien is determined" to be "be 21 years of age or older" for purposes of §1153(d).  Section 1153(h)(3) thus states the condition that an immigrant must satisfy to be eligible for automatic conversion, but it nowhere commands when the conversion should occur.  There is no reason why conversion cannot occur at the logical point just described: the moment when USCIS receives proof that an appropriate category exists.
     The plurality acknowledges that §1153(h)(3) "does not explicitly identify th[e] point in time" at which a "petition is to be 'converted.' "  Ante, at 18.  It nevertheless suggests that the date when a conversion occurs "is best viewed" as the date when a visa became available for the aged-out child's parent.  Ante, at 19.  But Congress could not have intended conversion to occur at that point for a glaring reason: The date on which a visa becomes available for an aged-out child's parent occurs before the point at which the child is determined to have aged-out under §1153(d)--the very requirement §1153(h)(3) prescribes for the aged-out child to be eligible for automatic conversion in the first place.  As the plurality explains, ante, at 5-6, such age determinations occur when an immigration official reviews the child's derivative visa application, which invariably happens after a visa became available for the child's parent as the principal beneficiary.  At best, then, the plurality's interpretation requires USCIS to convert petitions at a time when it does not know which petitions are eligible for conversion; at worst, it requires the automatic conversion of petitions benefiting immigrants who will never even qualify for such relief (i.e., aged-out immigrants who, for any number of reasons, never file a visa application and so are never determined by officials to be older than 21).
     Faced with this fact, the plurality falls back to the position that automatic conversion must merely be viewed as having occurred "as of th[e] . . . date" when a parent's visa becomes available, although the actual "assess[ment]" of the conversion will necessarily occur at some future point in time.  Ante, at 24, n. 13.  That approach, however, introduces precisely the kind of "additional decisions, contingencies, and delays" that the plurality regards as inconsistent with the ordinary meaning of "automatic," ante, at 15.  For even under the plurality's view, automatic conversion cannot actually be "assesse[d]" until and unless the aged-out child decides to apply for a visa and officials assessing the child's application deem her to have aged out (events which may themselves be contingent on the child's parent first filing her own successful visa application, see ante, at 6).  The far simpler approach is for conversion to occur automatically upon the most logical moment suggested by the statute: the moment when USCIS confirms that an "appropriate category" exists, §1153(h)(3).  Indeed, the plurality fails to explain why this cannot be the proper predicate; it simply dismisses such an approach as supported "only" by "a single-minded resolve . . . to grant relief to every possible aged-out beneficiary."  Ante, at 25, n. 13.  But that criticism is revealing: The "single-minded resolve" the plurality maligns is Congress' own, for it is Congress that expressly provided, in the eligibility clause, for aged-out beneficiaries in all five categories to be granted relief.
     The plurality's second argument is a corollary of its first.  If automatic conversion must occur when a visa first becomes available for a parent, the plurality frets, that will mean an aged-out child will have her petition automatically converted before immigration officials can ascertain whether her parent is even qualified to sponsor her.  See ante, at 17-18.  True enough, but that only confirms that it makes no sense to force USCIS to convert petitions so prematurely.  The plurality's fears can all be averted by having automatic conversion occur, as with petitions sponsored by LPRs who later become U. S. citizens, supra, at 13-15, when USCIS receives confirmation that conversion is appropriate.7
     The plurality's final argument is that something about the term "conversion" precludes relief for all but the aged-out derivative beneficiaries of F2A petitions.  The plurality accepts that "conversion" will always require changing some aspects of a petition, including its preference category (e.g., from F2A to F2B) and the identity of its principal beneficiary (e.g., from an aged-out child's parent to the child).  But the plurality asserts that a related kind of change is entirely off the table: a change to the identity of the petition's sponsor.  Ante, at 15.  If a converted petition requires a different sponsor than the original petition, the plurality suggests, then it cannot be "converted" at all.
     The plurality points to nothing in the plain meaning of "conversion" that supports this distinction.  It instead argues that a "conversion" cannot entail a change to the identity of a petition's sponsor because that is "the exclusive way immigration law used the term when Congress enacted the CSPA."  Ante, at 16.  But immigration law has long allowed petitions to be converted from one category to another in contexts where doing so requires changing the sponsor's identity.  In 2006, for example, the Secretary of Homeland Security promulgated a regulatory provision entitled "automatic conversion of preference classification," 8 CFR §204.2(i)(1)(iv), which allows the automatic conversion of a petition filed by a U. S. citizen on behalf of her spouse to a widower petition if the citizen dies before the petition is approved.  That conversion requires changing the sponsor from the citizen to the widower himself.  The fact that the agency used the word "conversion" to refer to a process in which the petition's sponsor was changed, just a few years after 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3) was enacted, strongly suggests that the term did not have the exclusive meaning that the plurality suggests.  Similarly, §1154(a)(1)(D)(i)(III), a provision enacted two years before §1153(h)(3), see Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, 114 Stat. 1522, provides that a petition filed by a battered spouse on behalf of her child "shall be considered" a self-petition filed by the child herself if the child ages out--a conversion that obviously requires changing the identity of the sponsor from the battered spouse to the aged-out child.  And §1153(h)(4) confirms that such "self-petitioners" are entitled to §1153(h)(3)'s automatic conversion remedy.  The plurality never explains how it can be mandatory to "convert" the identity of the sponsors in these contexts yet impermissible to "convert" the sponsors of the petitions at issue here--an understanding that is especially implausible in light of Congress' command that such petitions "shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category."  §1153(h)(3).8
III
     The concurrence reaches the same result as the plurality does, but for a different reason.  It begins by recognizing that §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause "states a condition" that is satisfied by aged-out "beneficiaries from any preference category."  Ante, at 2 (Roberts, C. J., concurring in judgment).  The concurrence thus acknowledges that the eligibility clause encompasses aged-out beneficiaries of family-preference petitions in the F1, F2A, F2B, F3, and F4 categories.
     The concurrence nonetheless concludes that the BIA was free to exclude F1, F2B, F3, and F4 beneficiaries from the clear scope of the eligibility clause because of a perceived ambiguity as to which beneficiaries can receive "automatic conversion."  See ante, at 4 ("Congress did not speak clearly to which petitions can  'automatically be converted' ").  In other words, the concurrence concludes that it was reasonable for the agency to ignore the clear text of the eligibility clause because the phrase "automatic conversion" might be read in a manner that would benefit F2A beneficiaries alone.
     This is an unusual way to interpret a statute.  The concurrence identifies no case in which we have deferred to an agency's decision to use ambiguity in one portion of a statute as a license to ignore another statutory provision that is perfectly clear.  To the contrary, "[a] provision that may seem ambiguous in isolation is often clarified by the remainder of the statutory scheme . . . because only one of the permissible meanings produces a substantive effect that is compatible with the rest of the law."  United Sav. Assn. of Tex., 484 U. S., at 371.
     The concurrence justifies its conclusion only by treating the eligibility clause as a nullity.  The concurrence is quite candid about its approach, arguing that §1153(h)(3)'s relief clause is its "only operative provision"  and that the eligibility clause does not "grant anything to anyone."  Ante, at 3.  Yet "[i]t is our duty 'to give effect, if possible, to every clause and word of a statute.' "  United States v. Menasche, 348 U. S. 528, 538-539 (1955).  And there is an easy way to give meaning to the eligibility clause: The clause identifies who is entitled to the benefits specified in the ensuing relief clause.
     The concurrence relies ultimately on an irrelevant hypothetical: "If a student is determined to be enrolled at an accredited university, the student's cost of off-campus housing shall be deductible on her tax return."  Ante, at 3.  In this example, the concurrence points out, it is "apparent. . . that an enrolled student who lives on campus is not entitled to the deduction, even though the student falls within the conditional first clause."  Ibid.  That is correct, but it says nothing about this case.  For in the hypothetical, it is plain that the promised relief (a tax deduction for off-campus housing) cannot apply to the persons at issue (students who live on campus).  Here, however, the relief promised in §1153(h)(3) (priority date retention and automatic conversion) can be given to persons specified in the initial eligibility clause (aged-out children in all five family-preference categories).  See supra, at 9-19.  And once one recognizes that aged-out children in each category unambiguously covered by the eligibility clause can receive relief, the BIA's view that no children in four of those categories can ever receive any relief cannot be reasonable.9
*  *  *
     Congress faced a difficult choice when it enacted §1153(h)(3).  Given the "zero-sum world of allocating a limited number of visas," ante, at 33, Congress could have required aged-out children like Ruth Uy to lose their place in line and wait many additional years (or even decades) before being reunited with their parents, or it could have enabled such immigrants to retain their place in line--albeit at the cost of extending the wait for other immigrants by some shorter amount.  Whatever one might think of the policy arguments on each side, however, this much is clear: Congress made a choice.  The plurality's contrary view--that Congress actually delegated the choice to the BIA in a statute that unambiguously encompasses aged-out children in all five preference categories and commands that they "shall retain the[ir] original priority date[s]," §1153(h)(3)--is untenable.
     In the end, then, this case should have been resolved under a commonsense approach to statutory interpretation: Using traditional tools of statutory construction, agencies and courts should try to give effect to a statute's clear text before concluding that Congress has legislated in conflicting and unintelligible terms.  Here, there are straightforward interpretations of §1153(h)(3) that allow it to function as a coherent whole.  Because the BIA and the Court ignore these interpretations and advance a construction that contravenes the language Congress wrote, I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 An alien already in the United States--for example, on a student or temporary worker visa--must obtain "adjustment of status" rather than an immigrant visa to become a lawful permanent resident.  See 8 U. S. C. §1255(a).  Because the criteria for securing adjustment of status and obtaining an immigrant visa are materially identical, we use the single term "immigrant visa" to refer to both.
Footnote 2 The "family preference" label, as used by immigration officials, applies only to these five classifications, and not to the category for "immediate relatives" of U. S. citizens.  See Brief for Petitioners 3, n. 1.
Footnote 3 Immigrant visas can also go to aliens with special, marketable skills, see §§1151(a)(2), 1153(b), or to aliens from countries with historically low immigration to the United States, see §§1151(a)(3), 1153(c).  None of the respondents here sought visas under those "employment-based" or "diversity" categories.
Footnote 4 See Dept. of State, The Immigrant Visa Process: Visa Applicant Interview, online at http://travel.state.gov/content/visas/english/ immigrate/immigrant-process/interview/applicant_interview.html (all Internet materials as visited June 5, 2014, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).
Footnote 5 The last part of the immigration process is streamlined for aliens already residing in the United States who have applied for adjustment of status.  See n. 1, supra.  The immigration officer interviewing such an alien, upon finding her visa-eligible, may declare her an LPR on the spot.  See 8 U. S. C. §1255(i)(2).  But here too, the officer will not make a derivative beneficiary an LPR unless and until he approves that status for the principal.  See 22 CFR §40.1(a)(2).
Footnote 6 See USCIS, Processing Time Information, online at https:// egov.uscis.gov/cris/processingTimesDisplayInit.do.
Footnote 7 See The Immigrant Visa Process: Interview, online at http://travel.state.gov/content / visas / english / immigrate  / immigrant-process / interview.html.
Footnote 8 The full text of these three paragraphs, for the masochists among this opinion's readers, is as follows:
     "(h) Rules for determining whether certain aliens are children
     "(1) In general
     "For purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d) of this section, a determination of whether an alien satisfies the age requirement in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of section 1101(b)(1) of this title shall be made using--
     "(A) the age of the alien on the date on which an immigrant visa number becomes available for such alien (or, in the case of subsection (d) of this section, the date on which an immigrant visa number became available for the alien's parent), but only if the alien has sought to acquire the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence within one year of such availability; reduced by
     "(B) the number of days in the period during which the applicable petition described in paragraph (2) was pending.
     "(2) Petitions described
     "The petition described in this paragraph is--
     "(A) with respect to a relationship described in subsection (a)(2)(A) of this section, a petition filed under section 1154 of this title for classification of an alien child under subsection (a)(2)(A) of this section; or
     "(B) with respect to an alien child who is a derivative beneficiary under subsection (d) of this section, a petition filed under section 1154 of this title for classification of the alien's parent under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
     "(3) Retention of priority date
     "If the age of an alien is determined under paragraph (1) to be 21 years of age or older for the purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d) of this section, the alien's petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition."  8 U. S. C. §1153(h).
Footnote 9 Compare 695 F. 3d 1003, 1006 (CA9 2012) (case below) (holding that §1153(h)(3) extends relief to all aged-out derivative beneficiaries); Khalid v. Holder, 655 F. 3d 363, 365 (CA5 2011) (same), with Li v. Renaud, 654 F. 3d 376, 385 (CA2 2011) (holding that §1153(h)(3) not merely permits, but requires the Board's contrary interpretation).
Footnote 10 The dissent responds to this fact only with a pair of non-sequiturs.  Post, at 18-19 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).  First, the dissent  cites a statutory provision that does not use the word "conversion" at all, so can hardly attest to its meaning.  See 8 U. S. C. §1154(a)(1)(D)(i)(III).  And next, the dissent cites a regulation that post-dated the CSPA by years, and thus is equally irrelevant to what Congress intended.  See 71 Fed. Reg. 35732, 35749 (2006) (adding 8 CFR §204.2(i)(1)(iv)).  Moreover, both provisions relate to a sui generis circumstance in which a person can self-petition for a visa because her U. S. citizen or LPR relative either died or engaged in domestic abuse.  In that situation, the alien's eligibility rests throughout on her connection to the deceased or abusive relative; no new party must ever come in, as one has to in a case like Wang, to salvage a no-longer-effective petition.  See infra, at 18 (addressing the problems that the substitution of a new petitioner raises).
Footnote 11 Given the statute's broad definition of "child," the only F2A derivative beneficiaries who fall outside that proviso are stepchildren who were over the age of 18 when the petitioner married the spousal beneficiary. See §1101(b)(1)(B).  The Government represents that thousands of children are designated as F2A derivatives every year.  See Reply Brief 18, n. 13.
Footnote 12 It is, therefore, impossible to understand the dissent's statement that conversion of such a petition to an appropriate category requires " 'substantive alteration' to [the] petition."  See post, at 19, n. 8 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).
Footnote 13 Still, the respondents' view of the timing of conversion is better than the dissent's.  As an initial matter, the dissent's objection to assessing conversion as of the date a visa becomes available hinges on an imaginary difficulty.  That approach, the dissent complains, cannot be right because that date always "occurs before the point at which the child is determined to have aged-out."  Post, at 15.  Well, yes.  The date a visa becomes available is, under the statute, the date an alien ages out (or not); and that status change of course occurs before an immigration official, reviewing a visa application, finds that it has done so.  But what of it?  When an official determines that an alien was no longer a child on the date a visa became available, he also assesses whether automatic conversion was available to the alien as of that prior date.  In other words, here as elsewhere in immigration law, conversion occurs (or not) upon the date of the relevant status change--and no other.  See supra, at 19.  And once that is understood, the supposed difficulties the dissent throws up all melt away.  At the time of the status change, F2A petitions can be converted without further contingencies, decisions, or delays, whereas no other petitions can.  But cf. post, at 16, 17, n. 7 (countering, irrelevantly, that after an F2A petition is automatically converted, additional steps remain in the immigration process).  And immigration officials later reviewing visa applications know that fact, and can treat the different classes of aged-out beneficiaries accordingly.
Further, the dissent compounds its error by suggesting a baseless alternative date: "the moment when USCIS receives proof," no matter how far in the future, that a new petitioner stands ready and willing to sponsor an aged-out beneficiary.  Post, at 15.  Not even the respondents propose such a date, and for good reason.  It has no grounding in the CSPA or in any regulatory practice, and it bears no connection to the timing of the status change (aging out) that triggers conversion (or even, as the respondents' date does, to the later determination of that change).  The only thing appearing to support the dissent's date is a single-minded resolve, statutory text and administrative practice notwithstanding, to grant relief to every possible aged-out beneficiary.
Footnote 14 Nor does the dissent offer any serious aid to the respondents.  The dissent initially acknowledges that automatic conversion cannot involve "additional decisions, contingencies, or delays."  Post, at 13.  But no worries, the dissent continues: "[O]nce [an alien's parent] provides confirmation of her eligibility to sponsor" the aged-out alien, the original petition "can automatically be converted to an F2B petition, with no additional decision or contingency" or (presumably) delay.  Post, at 14.  Think about that: Once every decision, contingency, and delay we have just described is over (and a parent has at long last turned out to be a viable sponsor), the dissent assures us that no further decisions, contingencies, and delays remain.  Or, put differently, there are no contingencies after all the contingencies have been resolved; no decisions after all the decisions have been made; and no delay after all the delay has transpired.  And as if that argument were not awkward enough, consider that it would make automatic conversion turn on the filing of a new document that shows the parent's eligibility to sponsor her aged-out son or daughter--the very thing, as all parties agree, that conversion is supposed to render unnecessary.  See supra, at 18, 26.
Footnote 15 The dissent appears to think that something helpful to its view follows from repeating the word "shall" and changing the subject of the commands.  See post, at 9-10.  But that is not so, as some further examples show.  "If you advance to the next round, my assistant shall schedule an interview and you shall come in to answer questions."  "If the plane is low on fuel, the tanks shall be refilled and the pilot shall fly the route as scheduled."  In these sentences, as in our prior ones, the second command is conditional on the first; all that differs is that these sentences are (much like statutes) more formal and stilted.  And the dissent's citation of United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235 (1989), adds nothing to its argument.  There, we construed the following provision: "[T]here shall be allowed to the holder of [a secured] claim, interest on such claim, and any reasonable fees, costs, or charges provided for under the agreement under which such claim arose."  Id., at 241.  We held that the phrase "provided for under the agreement" qualifies the words "any reasonable fees, costs, or charges," but not the words "interest on such claim."  Id., at 241-242.  What relevance that interpretation bears to this case eludes us.
Footnote 16 The dissent claims that USCIS "administered priority date retention in exactly this manner" before the CSPA's enactment, post, at 10, but that confident assertion is just not so--or at least not in any way that assists the respondents.  The dissent principally relies on 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4), which prior to the CSPA's enactment permitted an aged-out F2A derivative beneficiary to retain his old priority date "if [a] subsequent petition is filed by the same petitioner" as filed the original.  Far from authorizing an open-ended, free-floating entitlement, that now-superseded regulation allowed an alien to keep his priority date only if he (unlike the respondents' offspring) had a qualifying relationship with the initial petitioner--that is, only if he fell within the group that the BIA in Wang thought entitled to relief.   See 25 I. & N. Dec., at 34-35.  And the other provisions the dissent cites (which, unlike §204.2(a)(4), continue to operate) similarly fail to support the dissent's position, because they enable an alien to retain a priority date only if attached to an existing valid petition.  See 8 U. S. C. §1154(k)(3) (permitting an alien to retain a priority date associated with an existing F2B petition); 8 CFR §204.5(e) (permitting an alien to retain a priority date associated with an existing employment-based petition); §204.12(f)(1) (permitting an alien to retain a priority date associated with an existing employment-based petition for immigrating physicians).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife, 551 U. S. 644 (2007), is not to the contrary.  There the Court confronted two different statutes, enacted to address different problems, that pre-sented "seemingly categorical--and, at first glance, irreconcilable--legislative commands."  Id., at 661.  We deferred to an agency's reasonable interpretation, which "harmonize[d] the statutes," in large part because of our strong presumption that one statute does not impliedly repeal another.  Id., at 662-669.  Home Builders did not address the consequences of a single statutory provision that appears to give divergent commands.
Footnote 2 For the same reason, I do not agree with the contention in Justice Sotomayor's dissent that the first clause of section 1153(h)(3) unambiguously "answers the precise question in this case."  Post, at 6.
Footnote 3 Justice Sotomayor's dissent accuses me of "ignor[ing]" the first clause of section 1153(h)(3), "treating [that] clause as a nullity," and denying the clause "effect."  Post, at 20-21.  But that point is correct only if the reader adopts Justice Sotomayor's own premise, that the first clause has operative effect on its own.  I give the statute's first clause precisely the (limited) effect it is meant to have: it defines who is potentially affected by section 1153(h)(3).  Justice Sotomayor's response to the campus housing example proves my point by acknowledging that who gets relief under a statute depends entirely on the meaning of the statute's operative provision, not on the reach of the introductory clause.  See post, at 21.  The Court would not reject a reasonable interpretation of the term "cost of off-campus housing," as Justice Sotomayor's dissent would, simply because the IRS could have interpreted the term to cover more students who fall within the prefatory clause.
Footnote 4 Justice Sotomayor's dissent is wrong that "the relief promised in §1153(h)(3) (priority date retention and automatic conversion) can be given" to every aged-out child in every preference category, post, at 21, and it therefore follows that the statute is ambiguous.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 I do not believe the term "converted" demands the interpretation the plurality gives it, for the reasons advanced in Justice Sotomayor's dissenting opinion.
Footnote 2 The Government does not argue that respondents' children were ineligible for relief because, as a factual matter, their ages were never "determined . . . to be 21 years of age or older," §1153(h)(3), after an appropriate category became available.  I therefore do not opine on this issue.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 The five categories are F1 (unmarried adult children of U. S. citizens); F2A (spouses and unmarried minor children of LPRs); F2B (unmarried adult children of LPRs); F3 (married children of U. S. citizens); and F4 (brothers and sisters of U. S. citizens).  8 U. S. C. §§1153(a)(1)-(4).
Footnote 2 As the plurality explains, ante, at 9-10, the formula specified in paragraph (1) subtracts out bureaucratic delays resulting from the Government's review of the relevant immigration paperwork.  That formula is not at issue in this case.
Footnote 3 To understand the kind of conflict that can make deference appropriate to an agency's decision to override unambiguous statutory text, consider the provisions at issue in National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife, 551 U. S. 644 (2007).  One provision, §402(b) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U. S. C. §1342(b), commanded, "without qualification, that the [Environmental Protection Agency] 'shall approve' a transfer application" whenever nine exclusive criteria were satisfied.  551 U. S., at 661.  A second provision, §7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U. S. C. §1536(a)(2), was "similarly imperative," ordering " '[e]ach Federal agency' " to ensure that its actions were " 'not likely to jeopardize' " an endangered species.  551 U. S., at 662.  "[A]pplying [§7(a)(2)'s] language literally," we observed, would contravene the "mandatory and exclusive list of [nine] criteria set forth in §402(b)," because it would "engraf[t] a tenth criterion onto" the statute.  Id., at 662-663.  The agency accordingly could not "simultaneously obey" both commands: It could consider 9 criteria or 10, but not both.  Id., at 666.  In that circumstance, we found it appropriate to defer to the agency's choice as to "which command must give way."  Ibid.
Footnote 4 The plurality does not dispute that USCIS has administered priority date retention as a form of relief independent from automatic conversion for years.  Ante, at 30, n. 16.  It nonetheless argues that the same approach is impermissible here for the counterintuitive reason that a pre-existing regulation used express language limiting priority date retention to derivative beneficiaries of F2A petitions alone.  See ante, at 30, n. 16 (noting that 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4) permitted an aged-out beneficiary to retain her priority date " 'if the subsequent petition is filed by the same petitioner' ").  Congress included no such language to limit the scope of priority date retention in 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3), however, which just reinforces what the eligibility clause already makes clear: Priority date retention is independently available for aged-out derivative beneficiaries of all family-preference petitions, not just F2A petitions.
The plurality also fails to account for the numerous other contexts in which USCIS has administered priority date retention as a benefit distinct from automatic conversion.  See, e.g., §1154(k)(3) (providing priority date retention to unmarried adult children of LPRs whose parents become naturalized citizens "[r]egardless of whether a petition is converted"); 8 CFR §204.5(e) ("A petition approved on behalf of an alien under [the employment-based immigration provisions of §1153(b)] accords the alien the priority date of the approved petition for any subsequently filed [employment] petition"); §204.12(f)(1) (a "physician beneficiary" who finds a "new employer [who] desir[es] to petition [USCIS] on the physician's behalf" must submit a new petition, but "will retain the priority date from the initial" petition).  Finally, the plurality suggests that priority date retention can operate independently of automatic conversion only if the date to be retained is attached to a valid petition. Ante, at 30, and n. 16.  But that cannot be squared with USCIS's longstanding practice of allowing F2A beneficiaries to retain the priority dates from their no-longer valid petitions upon the filing of a new petition.
Footnote 5 Of course, just like any other beneficiary of a family visa petition, one whose petition has been automatically converted must still satisfy the requirements for actually obtaining a visa.  See ante, at 5.  For example, all visa applicants must attach an "affidavit of support" from their sponsors.  8 U. S. C. §1182(a)(4)(C)(ii).  As is true for any other beneficiary, nothing stops a sponsor from declining to swear their support for the beneficiary of an automatically converted petition after a visa has become available.  Converting petitions upon proof of an appropriate category therefore produces no uncertainties or contingencies that do not already exist for all family visa applicants to begin with.
Footnote 6 See Dept. of State, If You Were an LPR and Are Now a U. S. Citizen: Upgrading a Petition, online at http://travel.state.gov/visa/immigrants/types/types_2991.html#5.  The regulation cited by the plurality, 8 CFR §204.2(i), is not to the contrary; it merely establishes that when an automatic conversion occurs, it shall be treated as "[e]ffective upon the date of naturalization," §204.2(i)(3).  As the State Department's instructions make clear, the conversion itself takes place after the new citizen "send[s] proof of [her] U. S. citizenship to the National Visa Center."  Dept. of State, If You Were an LPR and Are Now a U. S. Citizen: Upgrading a Petition.
Footnote 7 The plurality is unsatisfied with this approach to automatic conversion on the theory that, in order to eliminate all additional "decisions, contingencies, or delays" in the process, this solution postpones the moment of "conversion" until the necessary contingencies are satisfied.  Yet the plurality's approach does the same thing, because even on its account, some "decisions, contingencies, or delays" must occur before conversion can actually be assessed by immigration officials (i.e., a parent's visa must become available, the child must apply for a visa, and immigration officials must deem her to have aged out, see supra, at 16).  So the only question is whether the "conversion" should be considered to occur after all "decisions, contingencies, or delays" are in the past such that there is an appropriate category for conversion, or after only some.  The former understanding would allow the unambiguous language of the eligibility clause to be carried into effect; the latter would preclude relief for four categories of derivative beneficiaries.  In support of its restrictive interpretation, the plurality offers only the argument that converting a petition upon proof of an appropriate category would require the "filing of a new document. . . that shows the parent's eligibility to sponsor her aged-out [child]." Ante, at 26, n. 14.  The fact that a statute may require an agency to process a form is not a reason to disregard a coherent reading of a statute in favor of a self-contradictory one.
Footnote 8 Moreover, had Congress actually intended to permit relief only where a new petition has the same sponsor as the original petition, it had a ready model in the language of a pre-existing regulation.  See 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4) (conferring priority date retention on a derivative beneficiary only "if the subsequent petition is filed by the same petitioner").  If it had wanted to limit §1153(h)(3) to just the beneficiaries preferred by the BIA, "Congress could easily have said so."  Kucana v. Holder, 558 U. S. 233, 248 (2010).
     The plurality's argument that a "conversion" cannot entail a change to a petition's sponsor ultimately boils down to this: A "conversion" cannot include "any substantive alteration" to a petition, ante, at 15, except when it can.  For example, a "conversion" can (indeed, must) entail changing a petition's family-preference category and changing the petition's principal beneficiary (from the aged-out child's parent to the child herself).  And the plurality concedes that in other contexts, conversion must entail changing the identity of a petition's sponsor from the beneficiary's qualifying relative to the beneficiary himself.  Ante, at 16-17, n. 10.  The plurality does not explain why the word "conversion" can encompass all of these other substantive alterations, but not a change to the identity of a petition's sponsor in just this case.
Footnote 9 More fundamentally, the concurrence's hypothetical is irrelevant because it altogether ignores a critical feature of the statute before us: §1153(h)(2)'s express enumeration of the covered petitions to include petitions filed within the F1, F2A, F2B, F3, and F4 preference categories.  See supra, at 5-6.  A proper analogy would therefore be a provision that says the following: "If a student is determined to be enrolled at an accredited junior college, community college, or 4-year college, the student's room and board shall be tax-deductible and the student shall receive financial aid."  Is there any permissible reading of this provision under which, although expressly covered in the eligibility clause, all junior and community college students are categorically forbidden to receive both the tax deduction and financial aid?  Of course not.  And that would be true even if the term "room and board" were ambiguous and thus open to an interpretation under which only 4-year students could receive the tax deduction.  Likewise here, where F1, F2B, F3, and F4 derivative beneficiaries may not be categorically excluded from relief because they are indisputably covered by §1153(h)(3)'s eligibility clause and able to receive the relief described in the relief clause.





United States Supreme Court
MONCRIEFFE v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2013)
No. 11-702
Argued: October 10, 2012    Decided: April 23, 2013


Under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), a noncitizen convicted of an "aggravated felony" is not only deportable, 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), but also ineligible for discretionary relief.  The INA lists as an "aggravated felony" "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance," §1101(a)(43)(B), which, as relevant here, includes the conviction of an offense that the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) makes punishable as a felony, i.e., by more than one year's imprisonment, see 18 U. S. C. §§924(c)(2), 3559(a)(5).  A conviction under state law "constitutes a 'felony punishable under the [CSA]' only if it proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under that federal law."  Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 60.
          Petitioner Moncrieffe, a Jamaican citizen here legally, was found by police to have 1.3 grams of marijuana in his car.  He pleaded guilty under Georgia law to possession of marijuana with intent to distribute.  The Federal Government sought to deport him, reasoning that his conviction was an aggravated felony because possession of marijuana with intent to distribute is a CSA offense, 21 U. S. C. §841(a), punishable by up to five years' imprisonment, §841(b)(1)(D).  An Immigration Judge ordered Moncrieffe removed, and the Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.  The Fifth Circuit denied Moncrieffe's petition for review, rejecting his reliance on §841(b)(4), which makes marijuana distribution punishable as a misdemeanor if the offense involves a small amount for no remuneration, and holding that the felony provision, §841(b)(1)(D), provides the default punishment for his offense.
Held: If a noncitizen's conviction for a marijuana distribution offense fails to establish that the offense involved either remuneration or more than a small amount of marijuana, it is not an aggravated felony under the INA.  Pp. 4-22.
     (a) Under the categorical approach generally employed to determine whether a state offense is comparable to an offense listed in the INA, see, e.g., Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29, 33-38, the noncitizen's actual conduct is irrelevant.  Instead "the state statute defining the crime of conviction" is examined to see whether it fits within the "generic" federal definition of a corresponding aggravated felony.  Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 186.  The state offense is a categorical match only if a conviction of that offense " 'necessarily' involved . . . facts equating to [the] generic [federal offense]."  Shepard v. United States, 544 U. S. 13, 24.  Because this Court examines what the state conviction necessarily involved and not the facts underlying the case, it presumes that the conviction "rested upon [nothing] more than the least of th[e] acts" criminalized, before determining whether even those acts are encompassed by the generic federal offense.  Johnson v. United States, 559 U. S. 133, 137.  Pp. 4-6.
     (b) The categorical approach applies here because "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance" is a "generic crim[e]."  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 37.  Thus, a state drug offense must meet two conditions: It must "necessarily" proscribe conduct that is an offense under the CSA, and the CSA must "necessarily" prescribe felony punishment for that conduct.  Possession of marijuana with intent to distribute is clearly a federal crime.  The question is whether Georgia law necessarily proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under the CSA.  Title 21 U. S. C. §841(b)(1)(D) provides that, with certain exceptions, a violation of the marijuana distribution statute is punishable by "a term of imprisonment of not more than 5 years."  However, one of those exceptions, §841(b)(4), provides that "any person who violates [the statute] by distributing a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated as" a simple drug possessor, i.e., as a misdemeanant.  These dovetailing provisions create two mutually exclusive categories of punishment for CSA marijuana distribution offenses: one a felony, the other not.  The fact of a conviction under Georgia's statute, standing alone, does not reveal whether either remuneration or more than a small amount was involved, so Moncrieffe's conviction could correspond to either the CSA felony or the CSA misdemeanor.  Thus, the conviction did not "necessarily" involve facts that correspond to an offense punishable as a felony under the CSA.  Pp. 6-9.
     (c) The Government's contrary arguments are unpersuasive.  The Government contends that §841(b)(4) is irrelevant because it is merely a mitigating sentencing factor, not an element of the offense.  But that understanding is inconsistent with Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___, which recognized that when Congress has chosen to define the generic federal offense by reference to punishment, it may be necessary to take account of federal sentencing factors too.  The Government also asserts that any marijuana distribution conviction is presumptively a felony, but the CSA makes neither the felony nor the misdemeanor provision the default.  The Government's approach would lead to the absurd result that a conviction under a statute that punishes misdemeanor conduct only, such as §841(b)(4) itself, would nevertheless be a categorical aggravated felony.
     The Government's proposed remedy for this anomaly--that noncitizens be given an opportunity during immigration proceedings to demonstrate that their predicate marijuana distribution convictions involved only a small amount of marijuana and no remuneration--is inconsistent with both the INA's text and the categorical approach.  The Government's procedure would require the Nation's overburdened immigration courts to conduct precisely the sort of post hoc investigation into the facts of predicate offenses long deemed undesirable, and would require uncounseled noncitizens to locate witnesses years after the fact.
     Finally, the Government's concerns about the consequences of this decision are exaggerated.  Escaping aggravated felony treatment does not mean escaping deportation, because any marijuana distribution offense will still render a noncitizen deportable as a controlled substances offender.  Having been found not to be an aggravated felon, the noncitizen may seek relief from removal such as asylum or cancellation of removal, but the Attorney General may, in his discretion, deny relief if he finds that the noncitizen is actually a more serious drug trafficker.  Pp. 9-21.
662 F. 3d 387, reversed and remanded.
     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., and Alito, J., filed dissenting opinions.

Opinion of the Court
 569 U. S. ____ (2013)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 11-702
ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[April 23, 2013]

     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.
     The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., provides that a noncitizen who has been convicted of an "aggravated felony" may be deported from this country.  The INA also prohibits the Attorney General from granting discretionary relief from removal to an aggravated felon, no matter how compelling his case.  Among the crimes that are classified as aggravated felonies, and thus lead to these harsh consequences, are illicit drug trafficking offenses.  We must decide whether this category includes a state criminal statute that extends to the social sharing of a small amount of marijuana.  We hold it does not.
I
A
     The INA allows the Government to deport various classes of noncitizens, such as those who overstay their visas, and those who are convicted of certain crimes while in the United States, including drug offenses.  §1227.  Ordinarily, when a noncitizen is found to be deportable on one of these grounds, he may ask the Attorney General for certain forms of discretionary relief from removal, like asylum (if he has a well-founded fear of persecution in his home country) and cancellation of removal (if, among other things, he has been lawfully present in the United States for a number of years).  §§1158, 1229b.  But if a noncitizen has been convicted of one of a narrower set of crimes classified as "aggravated felonies," then he is not only deportable, §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), but also ineligible for these discretionary forms of relief.  See §§1158(b)(2)(A)(ii), (B)(i); §§1229b(a)(3), (b)(1)(C).1
     The INA defines "aggravated felony" to include a host of offenses.  §1101(a)(43).  Among them is "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance."  §1101(a)(43)(B).  This general term is not defined, but the INA states that it "includ[es] a drug trafficking crime (as defined in section 924(c) of title 18)."  Ibid.  In turn, 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) defines "drug trafficking crime" to mean "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act," or two other statues not relevant here.  The chain of definitions ends with §3559(a)(5), which provides that a "felony" is an offense for which the "maximum term of imprisonment authorized" is "more than one year."  The upshot is that a noncitizen's conviction of an offense that the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) makes punishable by more than one year's imprisonment will be counted as an "aggravated felony" for immigration purposes.  A conviction under either state or federal law may qualify, but a "state offense constitutes a 'felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act' only if it proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under that federal law."  Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 60 (2006).
B
     Petitioner Adrian Moncrieffe is a Jamaican citizen who came to the United States legally in 1984, when he was three.  During a 2007 traffic stop, police found 1.3 grams of marijuana in his car.  This is the equivalent of about two or three marijuana cigarettes.  Moncrieffe pleaded guilty to possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, a violation of Ga. Code Ann. §16-13-30(j)(1) (2007).  Under a Georgia statute providing more lenient treatment to first-time offenders, §42-8-60(a) (1997), the trial court withheld entering a judgment of conviction or imposing any term of imprisonment, and instead required that Moncrieffe complete five years of probation, after which his charge will be expunged altogether.2  App. to Brief for Petitioner 11-15.
     Alleging that this Georgia conviction constituted an aggravated felony, the Federal Government sought to deport Moncrieffe.  The Government reasoned that possession of marijuana with intent to distribute is an offense under the CSA, 21 U. S. C. §841(a), punishable by up to five years' imprisonment, §841(b)(1)(D), and thus an aggravated felony.  An Immigration Judge agreed and ordered Moncrieffe removed.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 14a-18a.  The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) affirmed that conclusion on appeal.  Id., at 10a-13a.
     The Court of Appeals denied Moncrieffe's petition for review.  The court rejected Moncrieffe's reliance upon §841(b)(4), a provision that, in effect, makes marijuana distribution punishable only as a misdemeanor if the offense involves a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration.  It held that in a federal criminal prosecution, "the default sentencing range for a marijuana distribution offense is the CSA's felony provision, §841(b)(1)(D), rather than the misdemeanor provision."  662 F. 3d 387, 392 (CA5 2011).  Because Moncrieffe's Georgia offense penalized possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, the court concluded that it was "equivalent to a federal felony."  Ibid.
     We granted certiorari, 566 U. S. ___ (2012), to resolve a conflict among the Courts of Appeals with respect to whether a conviction under a statute that criminalizes conduct described by both §841's felony provision and its misdemeanor provision, such as a statute that punishes all marijuana distribution without regard to the amount or remuneration, is a conviction for an offense that "proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under" the CSA.3 Lopez, 549 U. S., at 60.  We now reverse.
II
A
     When the Government alleges that a state conviction qualifies as an "aggravated felony" under the INA, we generally employ a "categorical approach" to determine whether the state offense is comparable to an offense listed in the INA.  See, e.g., Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29, 33-38 (2009); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 185-187 (2007).  Under this approach we look "not to the facts of the particular prior case," but instead to whether "the state statute defining the crime of conviction" categorically fits within the "generic" federal definition of a corresponding aggravated felony.  Id., at 186 (citing Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575, 599-600 (1990)).  By "generic," we mean the offenses must be viewed in the abstract, to see whether the state statute shares the nature of the federal offense that serves as a point of comparison.  Accordingly, a state offense is a categorical match with a generic federal offense only if a conviction of the state offense " 'necessarily' involved . . . facts equating to [the] generic [federal offense]."  Shepard v. United States, 544 U. S. 13, 24 (2005) (plurality opinion).  Whether the noncitizen's actual conduct involved such facts "is quite irrelevant."  United States ex rel. Guarino v. Uhl, 107 F. 2d 399, 400 (CA2 1939) (L. Hand, J.).
     Because we examine what the state conviction necessarily involved, not the facts underlying the case, we must presume that the conviction "rested upon [nothing] more than the least of th[e] acts" criminalized, and then determine whether even those acts are encompassed by the generic federal offense.  Johnson v. United States, 559 U. S. 133, 137 (2010); see Guarino, 107 F. 2d, at 400.  But this rule is not without qualification.  First, our cases have addressed state statutes that contain several different crimes, each described separately, and we have held that a court may determine which particular offense the noncitizen was convicted of by examining the charging document and jury instructions, or in the case of a guilty plea, the plea agreement, plea colloquy, or " 'some comparable judicial record' of the factual basis for the plea."  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 35 (quoting Shepard, 544 U. S., at 26).  Second, our focus on the minimum conduct criminalized by the state statute is not an invitation to apply "legal imagination" to the state offense; there must be "a realistic probability, not a theoretical possibility, that the State would apply its statute to conduct that falls outside the generic definition of a crime."  Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S., at 193.
     This categorical approach has a long pedigree in our Nation's immigration law.  See Das, The Immigration Penalties of Criminal Convictions: Resurrecting Categorical Analysis in Immigration Law, 86 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 1669, 1688-1702, 1749-1752 (2011) (tracing judicial decisions back to 1913).  The reason is that the INA asks what offense the noncitizen was "convicted" of, 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), not what acts he committed.  "[C]onviction" is "the relevant statutory hook."4 Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 16); see United States ex rel. Mylius v. Uhl, 210 F. 860, 862 (CA2 1914).
B
     The aggravated felony at issue here, "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance," is a "generic crim[e]."  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 37.  So the categorical approach applies.  Ibid.  As we have explained, supra, at 2-3, this aggravated felony encompasses all state offenses that "proscrib[e] conduct punishable as a felony under [the CSA]."  Lopez, 549 U. S., at 60.  In other words, to satisfy the categorical approach, a state drug offense must meet two conditions: It must "necessarily" proscribe conduct that is an offense under the CSA, and the CSA must "necessarily" prescribe felony punishment for that conduct.
     Moncrieffe was convicted under a Georgia statute that makes it a crime to "possess, have under [one's] control, manufacture, deliver, distribute, dispense, administer, purchase, sell, or possess with intent to distribute marijuana."  Ga. Code Ann. §16-13-30(j)(1).  We know from his plea agreement that Moncrieffe was convicted of the last of these offenses.  App. to Brief for Petitioner 11; Shepard, 544 U. S., at 26.  We therefore must determine whether possession of marijuana with intent to distribute is "necessarily" conduct punishable as a felony under the CSA.
     We begin with the relevant conduct criminalized by the CSA.  There is no question that it is a federal crime to "possess with intent to . . . distribute . . . a controlled substance," 21 U. S. C. §841(a)(1), one of which is marijuana, §812(c).5  So far, the state and federal provisions correspond.  But this is not enough, because the generically defined federal crime is "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act," 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2), not just any "offense under the CSA."  Thus we must look to what punishment the CSA imposes for this offense.
     Section 841 is divided into two subsections that are relevant here: (a), titled "Unlawful acts," which includes the offense just described, and (b), titled "Penalties."  Subsection (b) tells us how "any person who violates subsection (a)" shall be punished, depending on the circumstances of his crime (e.g., the type and quantity of controlled substance involved, whether it is a repeat offense).6  Subsection (b)(1)(D) provides that if a person commits a violation of subsection (a) involving "less than 50 kilograms of marihuana," then "such person shall, except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this subsection, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 5 years," i.e., as a felon.  But one of the exceptions is important here.  Paragraph (4) provides, "Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(D) of this subsection, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section by distributing a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated as" a simple drug possessor, 21 U. S. C. §844, which for our purposes means as a misdemeanant.7  These dovetailing provisions create two mutually exclusive categories of punishment for CSA marijuana distribution offenses: one a felony, and one not.  The only way to know whether a marijuana distribution offense is "punishable as a felony" under the CSA, Lopez, 549 U. S., at 60, is to know whether the conditions described in paragraph (4) are present or absent.
     A conviction under the same Georgia statute for "sell[ing]" marijuana, for example, would seem to establish remuneration.  The presence of remuneration would mean that paragraph (4) is not implicated, and thus that the conviction is necessarily for conduct punishable as a felony under the CSA (under paragraph (1)(D)).  In contrast, the fact of a conviction for possession with intent to distribute marijuana, standing alone, does not reveal whether either remuneration or more than a small amount of marijuana was involved.  It is possible neither was; we know that Georgia prosecutes this offense when a defendant possesses only a small amount of marijuana, see, e.g., Taylor v. State, 260 Ga. App. 890, 581 S. E. 2d 386, 388 (2003) (6.6 grams), and that "distribution" does not require remuneration, see, e.g., Hadden v. State, 181 Ga. App. 628, 628-629, 353 S. E. 2d 532, 533-534 (1987).  So Moncrieffe's conviction could correspond to either the CSA felony or the CSA misdemeanor.  Ambiguity on this point means that the conviction did not "necessarily" involve facts that correspond to an offense punishable as a felony under the CSA.  Under the categorical approach, then, Moncrieffe was not convicted of an aggravated felony.
III
A
     The Government advances a different approach that leads to a different result.  In its view, §841(b)(4)'s misdemeanor provision is irrelevant to the categorical analysis because paragraph (4) is merely a "mitigating exception," to the CSA offense, not one of the "elements" of the offense.  Brief for Respondent 12.  And because possession with intent to distribute marijuana is "presumptive[ly]" a felony under the CSA, the Government asserts, any state offense with the same elements is presumptively an aggravated felony.  Id., at 37.  These two contentions are related, and we reject both of them.
     First, the Government reads our cases to hold that the categorical approach is concerned only with the "elements" of an offense, so §841(b)(4) "is not relevant" to the categorical analysis.  Id., at 20.  It is enough to satisfy the categorical inquiry, the Government suggests, that the "elements" of Moncrieffe's Georgia offense are the same as those of the CSA offense: (1) possession (2) of marijuana (a controlled substance), (3) with intent to distribute it.  But that understanding is inconsistent with Carachuri-Rosendo, our only decision to address both "elements" and "sentencing factors."  There we recognized that when Congress has chosen to define the generic federal offense by reference to punishment, it may be necessary to take account of federal sentencing factors too.  See 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 3).  In that case the relevant CSA offense was simple possession, which "becomes a 'felony punishable under the [CSA]' only because the sentencing factor of recidivism authorizes additional punishment beyond one year, the criterion for a felony."  Id., at ___ (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2).  We therefore called the generic federal offense "recidivist simple possession," even though such a crime is not actually "a separate offense" under the CSA, but rather an " 'amalgam' " of offense elements and sentencing factors.  Id., at ___, and n. 3, ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 3, and n. 3, 7).
     In other words, not only must the state offense of conviction meet the "elements" of the generic federal offense defined by the INA, but the CSA must punish that offense as a felony.  Here, the facts giving rise to the CSA offense establish a crime that may be either a felony or a misdemeanor, depending upon the presence or absence of certain factors that are not themselves elements of the crime.  And so to qualify as an aggravated felony, a conviction for the predicate offense must necessarily establish those factors as well.
     The Government attempts to distinguish Carachuri-Rosendo on the ground that the sentencing factor there was a "narrow" aggravating exception that turned a misdemeanor into a felony, whereas here §841(b)(4) is a narrow mitigation exception that turns a felony into a misdemeanor.  Brief for Respondent 40-43.  This argument hinges upon the Government's second assertion: that any marijuana distribution conviction is "presumptively" a felony.  But that is simply incorrect, and the Government's argument collapses as a result.  Marijuana distribution is neither a felony nor a misdemeanor until we know whether the conditions in paragraph (4) attach: Section 841(b)(1)(D) makes the crime punishable by five years' imprisonment "except as provided" in paragraph (4), and §841(b)(4) makes it punishable as a misdemeanor "[n]otwithstanding paragraph (1)(D)" when only "a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration" is involved.  (Emphasis added.)  The CSA's text makes neither provision the default.  Rather, each is drafted to be exclusive of the other.
     Like the BIA and the Fifth Circuit, the Government believes the felony provision to be the default because, in practice, that is how federal criminal prosecutions for marijuana distribution operate.  See 662 F. 3d, at 391-392; Matter of Aruna, 24 I. & N. Dec. 452, 456-457 (2008); Brief for Respondent 18-23.  It is true that every Court of Appeals to have considered the question has held that a defendant is eligible for a 5-year sentence under §841(b)(1)(D) if the Government proves he possessed marijuana with the intent to distribute it, and that the Government need not negate the §841(b)(4) factors in each case.  See, e.g., United States v. Outen, 286 F. 3d 622, 636-639 (CA2 2002) (describing §841(b)(4) as a "mitigating exception"); United States v. Hamlin, 319 F. 3d 666, 670-671 (CA4 2003) (collecting cases).  Instead, the burden is on the defendant to show that he qualifies for the lesser sentence under §841(b)(4).  Cf. id., at 671.
     We cannot discount §841's text, however, which creates no default punishment, in favor of the procedural overlay or burdens of proof that would apply in a hypothetical federal criminal prosecution.  In Carachuri-Rosendo, we rejected the Fifth Circuit's " 'hypothetical approach,' " which examined whether conduct " 'could have been punished as a felony' 'had [it] been prosecuted in federal court.' "  560 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 8, 11).8  The outcome in a hypothetical prosecution is not the relevant inquiry.  Rather, our "more focused, categorical inquiry" is whether the record of conviction of the predicate offense necessarily establishes conduct that the CSA, on its own terms, makes punishable as a felony.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 16).
     The analogy to a federal prosecution is misplaced for another reason.  The Court of Appeals cases the Government cites distinguished between elements and sentencing factors to determine which facts must be proved to a jury, in light of the Sixth Amendment concerns addressed in Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466 (2000).  The courts considered which "provision . . . states a complete crime upon the fewest facts," Outen, 286 F. 3d, at 638, which was significant after Apprendi to identify what a jury had to find before a defendant could receive §841(b)(1)(D)'s maximum 5-year sentence.  But those concerns do not apply in this context.  Here we consider a "generic" federal offense in the abstract, not an actual federal offense being prosecuted before a jury.  Our concern is only which facts the CSA relies upon to distinguish between felonies and misdemeanors, not which facts must be found by a jury as opposed to a judge, nor who has the burden of proving which facts in a federal prosecution.9
     Because of these differences, we made clear in Carachuri-Rosendo that, for purposes of the INA, a generic federal offense may be defined by reference to both " 'elements' in the traditional sense" and sentencing factors.  560 U. S., at ___, n. 3, ___ (slip op., at 3, n. 3, 7); see also id., at ___ (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 3) (describing the generic federal offense there as "the Controlled Substances Act felony of possession-plus-recidivism").  Indeed, the distinction between "elements" and "sentencing factors" did not exist when Congress added illicit drug trafficking to the list of aggravated felonies, Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 102 Stat. 4469-4470, and most courts at the time understood both §841(b)(1)(D) and §841(b)(4) to contain sentencing factors that draw the line between a felony and a misdemeanor.  See, e.g., United States v. Campuzano, 905 F. 2d 677, 679 (CA2 1990).  Carachuri-Rosendo controls here.
     Finally, there is a more fundamental flaw in the Government's approach: It would render even an undisputed misdemeanor an aggravated felony.  This is "just what the English language tells us not to expect," and that leaves us "very wary of the Government's position."  Lopez, 549 U. S., at 54.  Consider a conviction under a New York statute that provides, "A person is guilty of criminal sale of marihuana in the fifth degree when he knowingly and unlawfully sells, without consideration, [marihuana] of an aggregate weight of two grams or less; or one cigarette containing marihuana."  N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §221.35 (West 2008) (emphasis added).  This statute criminalizes only the distribution of a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration, and so all convictions under the statute would fit within the CSA misdemeanor provision, §841(b)(4).  But the Government would categorically deem a conviction under this statute to be an aggravated felony, because the statute contains the corresponding "elements" of (1) distributing (2) marijuana, and the Government believes all marijuana distribution offenses are punishable as felonies.
     The same anomaly would result in the case of a noncitizen convicted of a misdemeanor in federal court under §§841(a) and (b)(4) directly.  Even in that case, under the Government's logic, we would need to treat the federal misdemeanor conviction as an aggravated felony, because the conviction establishes elements of an offense that is presumptively a felony.  This cannot be.  "We cannot imagine that Congress took the trouble to incorporate its own statutory scheme of felonies and misdemeanors," only to have courts presume felony treatment and ignore the very factors that distinguish felonies from misdemeanors.  Lopez, 549 U. S., at 58.
B
     Recognizing that its approach leads to consequences Congress could not have intended, the Government hedges its argument by proposing a remedy: Noncitizens should be given an opportunity during immigration proceedings to demonstrate that their predicate marijuana distribution convictions involved only a small amount of marijuana and no remuneration, just as a federal criminal defendant could do at sentencing.  Brief for Respondent 35-39.  This is the procedure adopted by the BIA in Matter of Castro Rodriguez, 25 I. & N. Dec. 698, 702 (2012), and endorsed by Justice Alito's dissent, post, at 11-12.
     This solution is entirely inconsistent with both the INA's text and the categorical approach.  As noted, the relevant INA provisions ask what the noncitizen was "convicted of," not what he did, and the inquiry in immigration proceedings is limited accordingly.  8 U. S. C. §§1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), 1229b(a)(3); see Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11).  The Government cites no statutory authority for such case-specific factfinding in immigration court, and none is apparent in the INA.  Indeed, the Government's main categorical argument would seem to preclude this inquiry: If the Government were correct that "the fact of a marijuana-distribution conviction alone constitutes a CSA felony," Brief for Respondent 37, then all marijuana distribution convictions would categorically be convictions of the drug trafficking aggravated felony, mandatory deportation would follow under the statute, and there would be no room for the Government's follow-on factfinding procedure.  The Government cannot have it both ways.
     Moreover, the procedure the Government envisions would require precisely the sort of post hoc investigation into the facts of predicate offenses that we have long deemed undesirable.  The categorical approach serves "practical" purposes: It promotes judicial and administrative efficiency by precluding the relitigation of past convictions in minitrials conducted long after the fact.  Chambers v. United States, 555 U. S. 122, 125 (2009); see also Mylius, 210 F., at 862-863.  Yet the Government's approach would have our Nation's overburdened immigration courts entertain and weigh testimony from, for example, the friend of a noncitizen who may have shared a marijuana cigarette with him at a party, or the local police officer who recalls to the contrary that cash traded hands.  And, as a result, two noncitizens, each "convicted of" the same offense, might obtain different aggravated felony determinations depending on what evidence remains available or how it is perceived by an individual immigration judge.  The categorical approach was designed to avoid this "potential unfairness."  Taylor, 495 U. S., at 601; see also Mylius, 210 F., at 863.
     Furthermore, the minitrials the Government proposes would be possible only if the noncitizen could locate witnesses years after the fact, notwithstanding that during removal proceedings noncitizens are not guaranteed legal representation and are often subject to mandatory detention, §1226(c)(1)(B), where they have little ability to collect evidence.  See Katzmann, The Legal Profession and the Unmet Needs of the Immigrant Poor, 21 Geo. J. Legal Ethics 3, 5-10 (2008); Brief for National Immigrant Justice Center et al. as Amici Curiae 5-18; Brief for Immigration Law Professors as Amici Curiae 27-32.  A noncitizen in removal proceedings is not at all similarly situated to a defendant in a federal criminal prosecution.  The Government's suggestion that the CSA's procedures could readily be replicated in immigration proceedings is therefore misplaced.  Cf. Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14-15) (rejecting the Government's argument that procedures governing determination of the recidivism sentencing factor could "be satisfied during the immigration proceeding").
     The Government defends its proposed immigration court proceedings as "a subsequent step outside the categorical approach in light of Section 841(b)(4)'s 'circumstance-specific' nature."  Brief for Respondent 37.  This argument rests upon Nijhawan, in which we considered another aggravated felony, "an offense that . . . involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i).  We held that the $10,000 threshold was not to be applied categorically as a required component of a generic offense, but instead called for a "circumstance-specific approach" that allows for an examination, in immigration court, of the "particular circumstances in which an offender committed the crime on a particular occasion."  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 38-40.  The Government suggests the §841(b)(4) factors are like the monetary threshold, and thus similarly amenable to a circumstance-specific inquiry.
     We explained in Nijhawan, however, that unlike the provision there, "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance" is a "generic crim[e]" to which the categorical approach applies, not a circumstance-specific provision.  Id., at 37; see also Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___, n. 11 (slip op., at 12-13, n. 11).  That distinction is evident in the structure of the INA.  The monetary threshold is a limitation, written into the INA itself, on the scope of the aggravated felony for fraud.  And the monetary threshold is set off by the words "in which," which calls for a circumstance-specific examination of "the conduct involved 'in' the commission of the offense of conviction."  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 39.  Locating this exception in the INA proper suggests an intent to have the relevant facts found in immigration proceedings.  But where, as here, the INA incorporates other criminal statutes wholesale, we have held it "must refer to generic crimes," to which the categorical approach applies.  Id., at 37.
     Finally, the Government suggests that the immigration court's task would not be so daunting in some cases, such as those in which a noncitizen was convicted under the New York statute previously discussed or convicted directly under §841(b)(4).  True, in those cases, the record of conviction might reveal on its face that the predicate offense was punishable only as a misdemeanor.  But most States do not have stand-alone offenses for the social sharing of marijuana, so minitrials concerning convictions from the other States, such as Georgia, would be inevitable.10  The Government suggests that even in these other States, the record of conviction may often address the §841(b)(4) factors, because noncitizens "will be advised of the immigration consequences of a conviction," as defense counsel is required to do under Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 359 (2010), and as a result counsel can build an appropriate record when the facts are fresh.  Brief for Respondent 38.  Even assuming defense counsel "will" do something simply because it is required of effective counsel (an assumption experience does not always bear out), this argument is unavailing because there is no reason to believe that state courts will regularly or uniformly admit evidence going to facts, such as remuneration, that are irrelevant to the offense charged.
     In short, to avoid the absurd consequences that would flow from the Government's narrow understanding of the categorical approach, the Government proposes a solution that largely undermines the categorical approach.  That the only cure is worse than the disease suggests the Government is simply wrong.
C
     The Government fears the consequences of our decision, but its concerns are exaggerated.  The Government observes that, like Georgia, about half the States criminalize marijuana distribution through statutes that do not require remuneration or any minimum quantity of marijuana.  Id., at 26-28.  As a result, the Government contends, noncitizens convicted of marijuana distribution offenses in those States will avoid "aggravated felony" determinations, purely because their convictions do not resolve whether their offenses involved federal felony conduct or misdemeanor conduct, even though many (if not most) prosecutions involve either remuneration or larger amounts of marijuana (or both).
     Escaping aggravated felony treatment does not mean escaping deportation, though.  It means only avoiding mandatory removal.  See Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).  Any marijuana distribution offense, even a misdemeanor, will still render a noncitizen deportable as a controlled substances offender.  8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  At that point, having been found not to be an aggravated felon, the noncitizen may seek relief from removal such as asylum or cancellation of removal, assuming he satisfies the other eligibility criteria.  §§1158(b), 1229b(a)(1)-(2).  But those forms of relief are discretionary.  The Attorney General may, in his discretion, deny relief if he finds that the noncitizen is actually a member of one "of the world's most dangerous drug cartels," post, at 2 (opinion of Alito, J.), just as he may deny relief if he concludes the negative equities outweigh the positive equities of the noncitizen's case for other reasons.  As a result, "to the extent that our rejection of the Government's broad understanding of the scope of 'aggravated felony' may have any practical effect on policing our Nation's borders, it is a limited one."  Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).
     In any event, serious drug traffickers may be adjudicated aggravated felons regardless, because they will likely be convicted under greater "trafficking" offenses that necessarily establish that more than a small amount of marijuana was involved.  See, e.g., Ga. Code Ann. §16-13-31(c)(1) (Supp. 2012) (separate provision for trafficking in more than 10 pounds of marijuana).  Of course, some offenders' conduct will fall between §841(b)(4) conduct and the more serious conduct required to trigger a "trafficking" statute.  Brief for Respondent 30.  Those offenders may avoid aggravated felony status by operation of the categorical approach.  But the Government's objection to that underinclusive result is little more than an attack on the categorical approach itself.11  We prefer this degree of imperfection to the heavy burden of relitigating old prosecutions.  See supra, at 15-16.  And we err on the side of underinclusiveness because ambiguity in criminal statutes referenced by the INA must be construed in the noncitizen's favor.  See Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17); Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 11, n. 8 (2004).
     Finally, the Government suggests that our holding will frustrate the enforcement of other aggravated felony provisions, like §1101(a)(43)(C), which refers to a federal firearms statute that contains an exception for "antique firearm[s]," 18 U. S. C. §921(a)(3).  The Government fears that a conviction under any state firearms law that lacks such an exception will be deemed to fail the categorical inquiry.  But Duenas-Alvarez requires that there be "a realistic probability, not a theoretical possibility, that the State would apply its statute to conduct that falls outside the generic definition of a crime."  549 U. S., at 193.  To defeat the categorical comparison in this manner, a noncitizen would have to demonstrate that the State actually prosecutes the relevant offense in cases involving antique firearms.  Further, the Government points to §1101(a)(43)(P), which makes passport fraud an aggravated felony, except when the noncitizen shows he committed the offense to assist an immediate family member.  But that exception is provided in the INA itself.  As we held in Nijhawan, a circumstance-specific inquiry would apply to that provision, so it is not comparable.  557 U. S., at 37-38.
*  *  *
     This is the third time in seven years that we have considered whether the Government has properly characterized a low-level drug offense as "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance," and thus an "aggravated felony."  Once again we hold that the Government's approach defies "the 'commonsense conception' " of these terms.  Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Lopez, 549 U. S., at 53).  Sharing a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration, let alone possession with intent to do so, "does not fit easily into the 'everyday understanding' " of "trafficking," which " 'ordinarily . . . means some sort of commercial dealing.' "  Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Lopez, 549 U. S., at 53-54).  Nor is it sensible that a state statute that criminalizes conduct that the CSA treats as a misdemeanor should be designated an "aggravated felony."  We hold that it may not be.  If a noncitizen's conviction for a marijuana distribution offense fails to establish that the offense involved either remuneration or more than a small amount of marijuana, the conviction is not for an aggravated felony under the INA.  The contrary judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Thomas, J., dissenting
 569 U. S. ____ (2013)
No. 11-702
ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, PETITIONER v. ERIC H.  HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[April 23, 2013]

     Justice Thomas, dissenting.
     A plain reading of 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) identifies two requirements that must be satisfied for a state offense to qualify as a "felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act [(CSA)]."  "First, the offense must be a felony; second, the offense must be capable of punishment under the [CSA]."  Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 61 (2006) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Moncrieffe's offense of pos-session of marijuana with intent to distribute satisfies both elements.  No one disputes that Georgia punishes Moncrieffe's offense as a felony.  See Ga. Code Ann. §16-13-30(j)(2) (Supp. 2012).  ("Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 16-13-31 or in Code Section 16-13-2, any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than ten years").1  And, the offense is "punishable under the [CSA]," 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2), because it involved "possess[ion] with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, a controlled substance," 21 U. S. C. §841(a)(1).  Accordingly, Moncrieffe's offense is a "drug trafficking crime," 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2), which constitutes an "aggravated felony" under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B).2
     The Court rejected the plain meaning of 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) in Lopez. 549 U. S., at 50.  There, the defendant was convicted of a state felony, but his offense would have been a misdemeanor under the CSA.  Id., at 53.  The Court held that the offense did not constitute a " 'felony punishable under the [CSA]' " because it was not "punishable as a felony under that federal law."  Id., at 60 (quoting §924(c)(2); emphasis added).  I dissented in Lopez and warned that an inquiry into whether a state offense would constitute a felony in a hypothetical federal prosecution would cause "significant inconsistencies."  Id., at 63.  I explained that one such inconsistency would arise if an alien defendant never convicted of an actual state felony were subject to deportation based on a hypothetical federal prosecution.  Id., at 67.
     This precise issue arose in Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___ (2010).  Instead of following the logic of Lopez, however, the Court contorted the law to avoid the harsh result compelled by that decision.  In Carachuri-Rosendo, the defendant was convicted of a crime that the State categorized as a misdemeanor, but his offense would have been a felony under the CSA because he had a prior conviction.  560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at ___).  The Court held that the offense did not constitute an "aggravated felony" because the state prosecutor had not charged the existence of a prior conviction and, thus, the defendant was not "actually convicted of a crime that is itself punishable as a felony under federal law."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 17).  Concurring in the judgment, I explained that the Court's decision was inconsistent with Lopez because the defendant's conduct was punishable as a felony under the CSA, but that Lopez was wrongly decided and that a proper reading of §924(c)(2) supported the Court's result.  560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).  Carachuri-Rosendo's crime of conviction was a state-law misdemeanor and, as a result, it did not qualify as a "felony punishable under the [CSA]."  See ibid.
     I declined to apply Lopez in Carachuri-Rosendo, and I am unwilling to apply it here.  Indeed, the Court itself declined to follow the logic of Lopez to its natural end in Carachuri-Rosendo.  And, now the majority's ill-advised approach once again leads to an anomalous result.  It is undisputed that, for federal sentencing purposes, Moncrieffe's offense would constitute a federal felony unless he could prove that he distributed only a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration.  Cf. United States v. Outen, 286 F. 3d 622, 637-639 (CA2 2002) (Sotomayor, J.) (agreeing with the Government that 21 U. S. C. §841(b)(4) is a mitigating exception to the "default provision" under §841(b)(1)(D) and that it need not negate the §841(b)(4) factors to support a sentence under §841(b)(1)(D)).  But, the Court holds that, for purposes of the INA, Moncrieffe's offense would necessarily correspond to a federal misdemeanor, regardless of whether he could in fact prove that he distributed only a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration.  Ante, at 11 (asserting that neither §841(b)(1)(D) nor §841(b)(4) is the "default" provision).  The Court's decision, thus, has the effect of treating a substantial number of state felonies as federal misdemeanors, even when they would result in federal felony convictions.
     The majority notes that "[t]his is the third time in seven years that we have considered whether the Government has properly characterized a low-level drug offense as . . . an 'aggravated felony.' "  Ante, at 20-21.  The Court has brought this upon itself.  The only principle uniting Lopez, Carachuri-Rosendo, and the decision today appears to be that the Government consistently loses.  If the Court continues to disregard the plain meaning of §924(c)(2), I expect that these types of cases will endlessly--and needlessly--recur.
     I respectfully dissent.

Alito, J., dissenting
 569 U. S. ____ (2013)
No. 11-702
ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, PETITIONER v. ERIC H.  HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[April 23, 2013]

     Justice Alito, dissenting.
     The Court's decision in this case is not supported by the language of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) or by this Court's precedents, and it leads to results that Congress clearly did not intend.
     Under the INA, aliens1 who are convicted of certain offenses may be removed from this country, 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2) (2006 ed. and Supp. V), but in many instances, the Attorney General (acting through the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA)) has the discretion to cancel re-moval, §§1229b(a), (b).  Aliens convicted of especially serious crimes, however, are ineligible for cancellation of removal.  §1229b(a)(3) (2006 ed.).  Among the serious crimes that carry this consequence is "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance."  §1101(a)(43)(B).
     Under the Court's holding today, however, drug traffickers in about half the States are granted a dispensation.  In those States, even if an alien is convicted of possessing tons of marijuana with the intent to distribute, the alien is eligible to remain in this country.  Large-scale marijuana distribution is a major source of income for some of the world's most dangerous drug cartels, Dept. of Justice, National Drug Intelligence Center, National Drug Threat Assessment 2, 7 (2011), but the Court now holds that an alien convicted of participating in such activity may petition to remain in this country.
     The Court's decision also means that the consequences of a conviction for illegal possession with intent to distribute will vary radically depending on the State in which the case is prosecuted.  Consider, for example, an alien who is arrested near the Georgia-Florida border in possession of a large supply of marijuana.  Under the Court's holding, if the alien is prosecuted and convicted in Georgia for possession with intent to distribute, he is eligible for cancellation of removal.  But if instead he is caught on the Florida side of the line and is convicted in a Florida court--where possession with intent to distribute a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration is covered by a separate statutory provision, compare Fla. Stat. §893.13(3) (2010) with §893.13(1)(a)(2)--the alien is likely to be ineligible.  Can this be what Congress intended?
I
     Certainly the text of the INA does not support such a result.  In analyzing the relevant INA provisions, the starting point is 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3), which provides that a lawful permanent resident alien subject to removal may apply for discretionary cancellation of removal if he has not been convicted of any "aggravated felony."  The term "aggravated felony" encompasses "illicit tracking in a controlled substance . . . including a drug trafficking crime (as defined in [18 U. S. C. §924(c)])."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B).  And this latter provision defines a "drug trafficking crime" to include "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U. S. C. 801 et seq.)."  18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2).  Thus "any felony punishable under the [CSA]" is an "aggravated felony."
     Where an alien has a prior federal conviction, it is a straightforward matter to determine whether the conviction was for a "felony punishable under the [CSA]."  But 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) introduces a complication.  That provision states that the statutory definition of "aggra-vated felony" "applies to an offense described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law."  (Emphasis added.)  As noted, the statutory definition of "aggravated felony" includes a "felony punishable under the [CSA]," and therefore §1101(a)(43)(B) makes it necessary to determine what is meant by a state "offense" that is a "felony punishable under the [CSA]."
     What §1101(a)(43) obviously contemplates is that the BIA or a court will identify conduct associated with the state offense and then determine whether that conduct would have supported a qualifying conviction under the federal CSA.2  Identifying and evaluating this relevant conduct is the question that confounds the Court's analysis.  Before turning to that question, however, some preliminary principles should be established.
     In Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 50 (2006), we held that felony status is controlled by federal, not state, law. As a result, once the relevant conduct is identified, it must be determined whether proof of that conduct would support a felony conviction under the CSA.  The federal definition of a felony is a crime punishable by imprisonment for more than one year.  18 U. S. C. §§3559(a)(1)-(5).  Consequently, if the proof of the relevant conduct would support a conviction under the CSA for which the maximum term of imprisonment is more than one year, the state conviction qualifies as a conviction for an "aggra-vated felony."
II
     This brings us to the central question presented in this case: how to determine and evaluate the conduct that constitutes the state "offense."  One possibility is that ac-tual conduct is irrelevant, and that only the elements of the state crime for which the alien was convicted matter.  We have called this the "categorical approach," Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575, 600 (1990), and we have generally used this approach in determining whether a state conviction falls within a federal definition of a crime, see id., at 600-601 ("Section 924(e)(2)(B)(i) defines 'violent felony' as any crime punishable by imprisonment for more than a year that 'has as an element'--not any crime that, in a particular case, involves--the use or threat of force.  Read in this context, the phrase 'is burglary' in §924(e)(2)(B)(ii) most likely refers to the elements of the statute of conviction, not to the facts of each defendant's conduct").  But, as will be discussed below, we have also departed in important ways from a pure categorical approach.
     The Court's opinion in this case conveys the impression that its analysis is based on the categorical approach, but that is simply not so.  On the contrary, a pure categorical approach leads very quickly to the conclusion that petitioner's Georgia conviction was a conviction for an "aggravated felony."
     The elements of the Georgia offense were as follows: knowledge, possession of marijuana, and the intent to dis-tribute it.  Ga. Code Ann. §16-13-30(j)(1) (2007); Jack- son v. State, 295 Ga. App. 427, 435, n. 28, 671 S. E. 2d 902, 909, n. 28 (2009).  Proof of those elements would be sufficient to support a conviction under 21 U. S. C. §841(a), and the maximum punishment for that offense is imprisonment for up to five years, §841(b)(1)(D) (2006 ed., Supp. V), more than enough to qualify for felony treatment.  Thus, under a pure categorical approach, petitioner's Georgia conviction would qualify as a conviction for an "aggravated felony" and would render him ineligible for cancellation of removal.
     The Court departs from this analysis because §841(b)(4) provides a means by which a defendant convicted of violating §841(a) (2006 ed.) may lower the maximum term of imprisonment to no more than one year.  That provision states that "any person who violates [§841(a)] by distributing a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated as" a defendant convicted of simple possession, and a defendant convicted of that lesser offense faces a maximum punishment of one year's imprisonment (provided that the defendant does not have a prior simple possession conviction), §844 (2006 ed., Supp. V).  Reading this provision together with §841(a), the Court proceeds as if the CSA created a two-tiered possession-with-intent-to-distribute offense: a base offense that is punishable as a misdemeanor and a second-tier offense (possession with intent to distribute more than a "small amount" of mari-juana or possession with intent to distribute for remuneration) that is punishable as a felony.
     If the CSA actually created such a two-tiered offense, the pure categorical approach would lead to the conclusion that petitioner's Georgia conviction was not for an "aggravated felony."  The elements of the Georgia offense would not suffice to prove the second-tier offense, which would require proof that petitioner possessed more than a "small amount" of marijuana or that he intended to obtain remuneration for its distribution.  Instead, proof of the elements of the Georgia crime would merely  establish a violation of the base offense, which would be a misdemeanor.
     The CSA, however, does not contain any such two-tiered provision.  And §841(b)(4) does not alter the elements of the §841(a) offense.  As the Court notes, every Court of Appeals to consider the question has held that §841(a) is the default offense and that §841(b)(4) is only a mitigating sentencing guideline, see United States v. Outen, 286 F. 3d 622, 636-639 (CA2 2002) (Sotomayor, J.) (describing §841(b)(4) as a "mitigating exception"); United States v. Hamlin, 319 F. 3d 666, 670 (CA4 2003) (collecting cases), and the Court does not disagree, ante, at 11-13.
     Confirmation of this interpretation is provided by the use of the term "small amount" in §841(b)(4).  If §841(b)(4) had been meant to alter the elements of §841(a), Congress surely would not have used such a vague term.  Due process requires that the elements of a criminal statute be defined with specificity.  Connally v. General Constr. Co., 269 U. S. 385, 393 (1926).  Accordingly, it is apparent that §841(b)(4) does not modify the elements of §841(a) but instead constitutes what is in essence a mandatory sentencing guideline.  Under this provision, if a defendant is convicted of violating §841(a), the defendant may attempt to prove that he possessed only a "small amount" of marijuana and that he did not intend to obtain remuneration for its distribution.  If the defendant succeeds in convincing the sentencing judge, the maximum term of imprisonment is lowered to one year.
     In sum, contrary to the impression that the Court's opinion seeks to convey, the Court's analysis does not follow the pure categorical approach.
III
     Nor is the Court's analysis supported by prior case law. The Court claims that its approach follows from our decision in Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___ (2010), but that case--unlike the Court's opinion--faithfully ap-plied the pure categorical approach.
     In Carachuri-Rosendo, the alien had been convicted in a Texas court for simple possession of a controlled substance.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  At the time of that conviction, Carachuri-Rosendo had a prior state conviction for simple possession, but this fact was not charged or proved at his trial and was apparently not taken into account in setting his sentence, which was 10 days in jail.  Id., at ___, ___-___ (slip op., at 5-6).  Arguing that Carachuri-Rosendo was ineligible for cancellation of removal, the Government maintained that his second sim-ple possession conviction qualified under the INA as a conviction for an "aggravated felony."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  This was so, the Government contended, because, if Carachuri-Rosendo's second simple-possession prosecution had been held in federal court, he could have been punished by a sentence of up to two years due to his prior simple possession conviction.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).
     This more severe sentence, however, would have required the federal prosecutor to file a formal charge alleging the prior conviction; Carachuri-Rosendo would have been given the opportunity to defend against that charge; and the heightened sentence could not have been imposed unless the court found that the prior conviction had occurred.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 14).
     Our rejection of the Government's argument thus represented a straightforward application of the pure categorical approach.  The elements of the Texas offense for which Carachuri-Rosendo was convicted were knowledge or intent, possession of a controlled substance without a prescription, and nothing more.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §§481.117(a), (b) (West 2010).  Proof of a prior simple possession conviction was not required, and no such proof appears to have been offered.  The maximum penalty that could have been imposed under federal law for simple possession (without proof of a prior simple possession conviction) was one year's imprisonment.  Thus, proof in federal court of the elements of the Texas offense would not have permitted a felony-length sentence, and consequently the state conviction did not qualify as a felony punishable under the CSA.
IV
     Unsupported by either the categorical approach or our prior cases, the decision of the Court rests instead on the Court's belief--which I share--that the application of the pure categorical approach in this case would lead to results that Congress surely did not intend.
     Suppose that an alien who is found to possess two marijuana cigarettes is convicted in a state court for possession with intent to distribute based on evidence that he in-tended to give one of the cigarettes to a friend.  Under the pure categorical approach, this alien would be regarded as having committed an "aggravated felony."  But this classification is plainly out of step with the CSA's assessment of the severity of the alien's crime because under the CSA the alien could obtain treatment as a misdemeanant by taking advantage of 21 U. S. C. §841(b)(4).
     For this reason, I agree with the Court that such an alien should not be treated as having committed an "aggravated felony."  In order to avoid this result, however, it is necessary to depart from the categorical approach, and that is what the Court has done.  But the particular way in which the Court has departed has little to recommend it.
     To begin, the Court's approach is analytically confused.  As already discussed, the Court treats §841(b)(4) as if it modified the elements of §841(a), when in fact §841(b)(4) does no such thing.  And the Court obviously knows this because it does not suggest that §841(b)(4) changes the elements of §841(a) for criminal law purposes.3
     In addition, the Court's approach leads to the strange and disruptive results noted at the beginning of this opinion.  As an initial matter, it leads to major drug traffick-ing crimes in about half the States being excluded from the category of "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance."  Moreover, it leads to significant disparities between equally culpable defendants.  We adopted the categorical ap-proach to avoid disparities in our treatment of defendants convicted in different States for committing the same criminal conduct.  See Taylor, 495 U. S., at 590-591 (rejecting the view that state law determined the meaning of "burglary" because "[t]hat would mean that a person convicted of unlawful possession of a firearm would, or would not, receive a sentence enhancement based on exactly the same conduct, depending on whether the State of his prior conviction happened to call that conduct 'burglary' ").  Yet the Court reintroduces significant disparity into our treatment of drug offenders.  All of this can be avoided by candidly acknowledging that the categorical approach is not the be-all and end-all.
     When Congress wishes to make federal law dependent on certain prior state convictions, it faces a difficult task.  The INA provisions discussed above confront this problem, and their clear objective is to identify categories of criminal conduct that evidence such a high degree of societal danger that an alien found to have engaged in such conduct should not be allowed to obtain permission to remain in this country.  Since the vast majority of crimes are prosecuted in the state courts, Congress naturally looked to state, as well as federal, convictions as a metric for identifying these dangerous aliens.
     But state criminal codes vary widely, and some state crimes are defined so broadly that they encompass both very serious and much less serious cases.  In cases involving such state provisions, a pure categorical approach may frustrate Congress' objective.
     The Court has said that the categorical approach finds support in the term "conviction."  Taylor, supra, at 600; Shepard v. United States, 544 U. S. 13, 19 (2005).  But the Court has never held that a pure categorical approach is dictated by the use of that term,4 and I do not think that it is.  In ordinary speech, when it is said that a person was convicted of or for doing something, the "something" may include facts that go beyond the bare elements of the relevant criminal offense.  For example, it might be said that an art thief was convicted of or for stealing a Rembrandt oil painting even though neither the identity of the artist nor the medium used in the painting are elements of the standard offense of larceny.  See 3 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §19.1(a) (2d ed. 2003).
     For these reasons, departures from the categorical approach are warranted, and this Court has already sanctioned such departures in several circumstances.  See Taylor, supra, at 602 (modified categorical approach); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 193 (2007) (categorical approach does not exclude state-law convictions unless there is "a realistic probability, not a theoretical possibility, that the State would apply its statute to conduct that falls outside the generic definition of a crime"); Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29, 32 (2009) (interpreting an enumerated "aggravated felony" in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) not to be a generic crime).  Consistent with the flexibility that the Court has already recognized, I would hold that the categorical approach is not controlling where the state conviction at issue was based on a state statute that encompasses both a substantial number of cases that qualify under the federal standard and a substantial number that do not.  In such situations, it is appropriate to look beyond the elements of the state offense and to rely as well on facts that were admitted in state court or that, taking a realistic view, were clearly proved.  Such a look beyond the elements is particularly appropriate in a case like this, which involves a civil proceeding before an expert agency that regularly undertakes factual inquiries far more daunting than any that would be involved here.  See, e.g., Negusie v. Holder, 555 U. S. 511 (2009).
     Applying this approach in the present case, what we find is that the Georgia statute under which petitioner was convicted broadly encompasses both relatively minor offenses (possession of a small amount of marijuana with the intent to share) and serious crimes (possession with intent to distribute large amounts of marijuana in exchange for millions of dollars of profit).  We also find that petitioner had the opportunity before the BIA to show that his criminal conduct fell into the category of relatively minor offenses carved out by §841(b)(4).  Administrative Record 16-26.  The BIA takes the entirely sensible view that an alien who is convicted for possession with intent to distribute may show that his conviction was not for an "aggravated felony" by proving that his conduct fell within §841(b)(4).  Matter of Castro-Rodriguez, 25 I. & N. Dec. 698, 701-702 (2012).  Petitioner, for whatever reason, availed himself only of the opportunity to show that his conviction had involved a small amount of marijuana and did not present evidence--or even contend--that his offense had not involved remuneration.  Administrative Record 16-26, 37.  As a result, I think we have no alternative but to affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals, which in turn affirmed the BIA.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 In addition to asylum, a noncitizen who fears persecution may seek withholding of removal, 8 U. S. C. §1231(b)(3)(A), and deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CAT), Art. 3, Dec. 10, 1984, S. Treaty Doc. No. 100-20, p. 20, 1465 U. N. T. S. 85; 8 CFR §1208.17(a) (2012).  These forms of relief require the noncitizen to show a greater likelihood of persecution or torture at home than is necessary for asylum, but the Attorney General has no discretion to deny relief to a noncitizen who establishes his eligibility.  A conviction of an aggravated felony has no effect on CAT eligibility, but will render a noncitizen ineligible for withholding of removal if he "has been sentenced to an aggregate term of imprisonment of at least 5 years" for any aggravated felonies.  8 U. S. C. §1231(b)(3)(B).
Footnote 2 The parties agree that this resolution of Moncrieffe's Georgia case is nevertheless a "conviction" as the INA defines that term, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(48)(A).  See Brief for Petitioner 6, n. 2; Brief for Respondent 5, n. 2.
Footnote 3 Compare 662 F. 3d 387 (CA5 2011) (case below), Garcia v. Holder, 638 F. 3d 511 (CA6 2011) (is an aggravated felony), and Julce v. Mukasey, 530 F. 3d 30 (CA1 2008) (same), with Martinez v. Mukasey, 551 F. 3d 113 (CA2 2008) (is not an aggravated felony), and Wilson v. Ashcroft, 350 F. 3d 377 (CA3 2003) (same).
Footnote 4 Carachuri-Rosendo construed a different provision of the INA that concerns cancellation of removal, which also requires determining whether the noncitizen has been "convicted of any aggravated felony."  8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3) (emphasis added).  Our analysis is the same in both contexts.
Footnote 5 In full, 21 U. S. C. §841(a)(1) provides, 
"Except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally--
"(1) to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, or possess with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, a controlled substance . . . ."
Footnote 6 In pertinent part, §§841(b)(1)(D) and (b)(4) (2006 ed. and Supp. V) provide,
     "Except as otherwise provided in section 849, 859, 860, or 861 of this title, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be sentenced as follows:
.     .     .     .     .
     "[(1)](D) In the case of less than 50 kilograms of marihuana, except in the case of 50 or more marihuana plants regardless of weight, 10 kilograms of hashish, or one kilogram of hashish oil, such person shall, except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this subsection, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 5 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $250,000 if the defendant is an individual or $1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. . . .
.     .     .     .     .
     "(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(D) of this subsection, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section by distributing a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated as provided in section 844 of this title and section 3607 of title 18."
Footnote 7 Although paragraph (4) speaks only of "distributing" marijuana, the parties agree that it also applies to "the more inchoate offense of possession with intent to distribute that drug."  Matter of Castro Rodriguez, 25 I. & N. Dec. 698, 699, n. 2 (BIA 2012); see Brief for Petitioner 6, n. 2; Brief for Respondent 8, n. 5.
     The CSA does not define "small amount."  The BIA has suggested that 30 grams "serve[s] as a useful guidepost," Castro Rodriguez, 25 I. & N. Dec., at 703, noting that the INA exempts from deportable controlled substances offenses "a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana," 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).  The meaning of "small amount" is not at issue in this case, so we need not, and do not, define the term.
Footnote 8 Justice Alito states that the statute "obviously" requires examination of whether "conduct associated with the state offense . . . would have supported a qualifying conviction under the federal CSA." Post, at 3 (dissenting opinion) (emphasis added); see also post, at 8.  But this echoes the Fifth Circuit's approach in Carachuri-Rosendo.  As noted in the text, our opinion explicitly rejected such reasoning based on conditional perfect formulations.  See also, e.g., Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16) (criticizing approach that "focuses on facts known to the immigration court that could have but did not serve as the basis for the state conviction and punishment" (emphasis altered)).  Instead, as we have explained, supra, at 10-11, our holding depended upon the fact that Carachuri-Rosendo's conviction did not establish the fact necessary to distinguish between misdemeanor and felony punishment under the CSA.  The same is true here.
Footnote 9 The Government also cites 21 U. S. C. §885(a)(1), which provides that the Government need not "negative any exemption or exception set forth" in the CSA, and instead "the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to any such exemption or exception shall be upon the person claiming its benefit."  Brief for Respondent 21.  Even assuming §841(b)(4) is such an "exception," §885(a)(1) applies, by its own terms, only to "any trial, hearing, or other proceeding under" the CSA itself, not to the rather different proceedings under the INA.
Footnote 10 In addition to New York, it appears that 13 other States have separate offenses for §841(b)(4) conduct.  See Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. §11360(b) (West Supp. 2013); Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. §18-18-406(5) (2012); Fla. Stat. §893.13(2)(b)(3) (2010); Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 20, §§550/3, 550/4, 550/6 (West 2010); Iowa Code §124.410 (2009); Minn. Stat. §152.027(4)(a) (2010); N. M. Stat. Ann. §30-31-22(E) (Supp. 2011); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §2925.03(C)(3)(h) (Lexis 2012 Cum. Supp.); Ore. Rev. Stat. §475.860(3) (2011); Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35, §780-113(a)(31) (Purdon Supp. 2012); S. D. Codified Laws §22-42-7 (Supp. 2012); Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §481.120(b)(1) (West 2010); W. Va. Code Ann. §60A-4-402(c) (Lexis 2010).
Footnote 11 Similarly, Justice Alito's dissent suggests that he disagrees with the first premises of the categorical approach.  He says it is a "strange and disruptive resul[t]" that "defendants convicted in different States for committing the same criminal conduct" might suffer different collateral consequences depending upon how those States define their statutes of conviction.  Post, at 9.  Yet that is the longstanding, natural result of the categorical approach, which focuses not on the criminal conduct a defendant "commit[s]," but rather what facts are necessarily established by a conviction for the state offense.  Different state offenses will necessarily establish different facts.  Some will track the "uniform" federal definition of the generic offense, and some will not.  Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575, 590 (1990).  Whatever disparity this may create as between defendants whose real-world conduct was the same, it ensures that all defendants whose convictions establish the same facts will be treated consistently, and thus predictably, under federal law.  This was Taylor's chief concern in adopting the categorical approach.  See id., at 599-602.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Section 16-13-31(c) (Supp. 2012) increases the punishment for trafficking in marijuana, while §16-13-2(b) (2011) decreases the punishment for simple possession of 1 ounce or less of marijuana.  Neither provision is applicable to Moncrieffe's offense of possession of mari-juana with intent to distribute.
The Court correctly points out that Moncrieffe was sentenced pur-suant to §16-13-2(a) because he was a first-time offender.  Ante, at 3.  That provision does not alter the felony status of the offense.  Rather, it gives courts discretion to impose probation instead of imprisonment and to do so without entering a conviction.  As the majority recognizes, petitioner has waived any argument that he was not convicted for pur-poses of the Immigration and Nationality Act.  Ante, at 3, n. 2.
Footnote 2 See 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) (providing that aliens convicted of an "aggravated felony" after admission are deportable); §1229b(a)(3) (providing that aliens convicted of an "aggravated felony" are ineligible for cancellation of removal); §1101(a)(43)(B) (defining "aggravated felony" as "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance . . . including a drug trafficking crime (as defined in [18 U. S. C. §924(c)])"); 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) (defining "drug trafficking crime" as "any felony punishable under the [CSA]").
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 "Alien" is the term used in the relevant provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and this term does not encompass all noncitizens.  Compare 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(3) (defining "alien" to include "any person not a citizen or national of the United States") with §1101(a)(22) (defining "national of the United States").  See also Miller v. Albright, 523 U. S. 420, 467, n. 2 (1998) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).
Footnote 2 The Court's disagreement with this proposition, ante at 12, n. 8, is difficult to understand.  If, as 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) quite plainly suggests and the Court has held, a state conviction can qualify as an "aggravated felony," we must determine what is meant by a state "of-fense" that is a "felony punishable under the [CSA]."  There is no way to do this other than by identifying a set of relevant conduct and asking whether, based on that conduct, the alien could have been con-victed of a felony if prosecuted under the CSA in federal court.  In reject-ing what it referred to as a "hypothetical approach," the Carachuri-Rosendo Court was addressing an entirely different question, specifically, which set of conduct is relevant.  Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2010) (slip op., at 8, 15-17).  We held that the relevant set of conduct consisted of that which was in fact charged and proved in the state-court proceeding, not the set of conduct that could have been proved in a hypothetical federal proceeding.
Footnote 3 The Court defends its interpretation of 21 U. S. C. §§841(a), (b)(4) by arguing that Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___ (2010), re-jected any recourse to a "hypothetical approach" for determining how a criminal prosecution likely would have proceeded, see ante, at 12, and that is true enough.  But, as discussed above, see n. 2, supra, just because the categorical approach does not require conjecture as to whether a hypothetical federal prosecutor would be likely to charge and prove a prior conviction does not mean that it also precludes analysis of the structure of the federal criminal statute at hand.  Indeed, our categorical-approach cases have done little else.  See, e.g., Carachuri-Rosendo, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 14) (discussing procedural protections Carachuri-Rosendo would have enjoyed had he been prosecuted federally); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 185, 189-194 (2007) (the term "theft offense" in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(G) includes the crime of aiding and abetting a theft offense).
Footnote 4 Instead, the Court adopted the categorical approach based on a combination of factors, including judicial efficiency.  See Taylor, 495 U. S., at 601 ("[T]he practical difficulties and potential unfairness of a factual approach are daunting.  In all cases where the Government alleges that the defendant's actual conduct would fit the generic definition of burglary, the trial court would have to determine what that conduct was").





United States Supreme Court
CHAIDEZ v. UNITED STATES, (2013)
No. 11-820
Argued: November 1, 2012    Decided: February 20, 2013


Immigration officials initiated removal proceedings against petitioner Chaidez in 2009 upon learning that she had pleaded guilty to mail fraud in 2004.  To avoid removal, she sought to overturn that conviction by filing a petition for a writ of coram nobis, contending that her former attorney's failure to advise her of the guilty plea's immigration consequences constituted ineffective assistance of counsel under the Sixth Amendment.  While her petition was pending, this Court held in Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, that the Sixth Amendment requires defense attorneys to inform non-citizen clients of the deportation risks of guilty pleas.  The District Court vacated Chaidez's conviction, determining that Padilla did not announce a "new rule" under Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, and thus applied to Chaidez's case.  The Seventh Circuit reversed, holding that Padilla had declared a new rule and should not apply in a challenge to a final conviction.
Held: Padilla does not apply retroactively to cases already final on direct review.  Pp. 3−15.
     (a) Under Teague, a person whose conviction is already final may not benefit from a new rule of criminal procedure on collateral review.  A "case announces a new rule if the result was not dictated by precedent existing at the time the defendant's conviction became final."  Teague, 489 U. S., at 301.  And a holding is not so dictated unless it would have been "apparent to all reasonable jurists."  Lambrix v. Singletary, 520 U. S. 518, 527−528.  At the same time, a case does not "announce a new rule, [when] it [is] merely an application of the principle that governed" a prior decision to a different set of facts.  Teague, 489 U. S., at 307.  Thus, garden-variety applications of the test in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, for assessing ineffective assistance claims do not produce new rules, id., at 687−688.
     But Padilla did more than just apply Strickland's general standard to yet another factual situation.  Before deciding if failing to inform a client about the risk of deportation "fell below [Strickland's] objective standard of reasonableness," 466 U. S., at 688, Padilla first considered the threshold question whether advice about deportation was "categorically removed" from the scope of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel because it involved only a "collateral consequence" of a conviction, rather than a component of a criminal sentence, 559 U. S., at ___.  That is, prior to asking how the Strickland test applied, Padilla asked whether that test applied at all.
     That preliminary question came to the Court unsettled.  Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, had explicitly left open whether the Sixth Amendment right extends to collateral consequences.  That left the issue to the state and lower federal courts, and they almost unanimously concluded that the Sixth Amendment does not require attorneys to inform their clients of a conviction's collateral consequences, including deportation.  Padilla's contrary ruling thus answered an open question about the Sixth Amendment's reach, in a way that altered the law of most jurisdictions.  In so doing, Padilla broke new ground and imposed a new obligation.  Pp. 3−11.
     (b) Chaidez argues that Padilla did no more than apply Strickland to a new set of facts.  But she ignores that Padilla had to develop new law to determine that Strickland applied at all.  The few lower court decisions she cites held only that a lawyer may not affirmatively misrepresent his expertise or otherwise actively mislead his client as to any important matter.  Those rulings do not apply to her case, and they do not show that all reasonable judges thought that lawyers had to advise their clients about deportation risks.  Neither does INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, have any relevance here.  In saying that a reasonably competent lawyer would tell a non-citizen client about a guilty plea's deportation consequences, St. Cyr did not determine that the Sixth Amendment requires a lawyer to provide such information.  It took Padilla to decide that question.  Pp. 11-15.
655 F. 3d 684, affirmed.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.  Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, J., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 568 U. S. ____ (2013)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 11-820
ROSELVA CHAIDEZ, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[February 20, 2013]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     In Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___ (2010), this Court held that the Sixth Amendment requires an attorney for a criminal defendant to provide advice about the risk of deportation arising from a guilty plea.  We consider here whether that ruling applies retroactively, so that a person whose conviction became final before we decided Padilla can benefit from it.  We conclude that, under the prin-ciples set out in Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), Padilla does not have retroactive effect.
I
     Petitioner Roselva Chaidez hails from Mexico, but became a lawful permanent resident of the United States in 1977.  About 20 years later, she helped to defraud an automobile insurance company out of $26,000.  After federal agents uncovered the scheme, Chaidez pleaded guilty to two counts of mail fraud, in violation of 18 U. S. C. §1341.  The District Court sentenced her to four years of probation and ordered her to pay restitution.  Chaidez's conviction became final in 2004.
     Under federal immigration law, the offenses to which Chaidez pleaded guilty are "aggravated felonies," subjecting her to mandatory removal from this country.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(M)(i), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  But according to Chaidez, her attorney never advised her of that fact, and at the time of her plea she remained ignorant of it.
     Immigration officials initiated removal proceedings against Chaidez in 2009, after an application she made for citizenship alerted them to her prior conviction.  To avoid removal, Chaidez sought to overturn that conviction by filing a petition for a writ of coram nobis in Federal District Court.1  She argued that her former attorney's failure to advise her of the immigration consequences of pleading guilty constituted ineffective assistance of counsel under the Sixth Amendment.
     While Chaidez's petition was pending, this Court decided Padilla.  Our ruling vindicated Chaidez's view of the Sixth Amendment: We held that criminal defense attorneys must inform non-citizen clients of the risks of deportation arising from guilty pleas.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).  But the Government argued that Chaidez could not benefit from Padilla because it announced a "new rule" and, under Teague, such rules do not apply in collateral challenges to already-final convictions.
     The District Court determined that Padilla "did not announce a new rule for Teague purposes," and therefore should apply to Chaidez's case.  730 F. Supp. 2d 896, 904 (ND Ill. 2010).  It then found that Chaidez's counsel had performed deficiently under Padilla and that Chaidez suffered prejudice as a result.  Accordingly, the court vacated Chaidez's conviction.  See No. 03 CR 636-6, 2010 WL 3979664 (ND Ill., Oct. 6, 2010).
     The United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed, holding that Padilla had declared a new rule and so should not apply in a challenge to a final conviction.  "Before Padilla," the Seventh Circuit reasoned, "the [Supreme] Court had never held that the Sixth Amendment requires a criminal defense attorney to provide advice about matters not directly related to [a] client's criminal prosecution," including the risks of deporta-tion.  655 F. 3d 684, 693 (2011).  And state and lower federal courts had uniformly concluded that an attorney need not give "advice concerning [such a] collateral (as opposed to direct) consequenc[e] of a guilty plea."  Id., at 690.  According to the Seventh Circuit, Padilla's holding was new because it ran counter to that widely accepted "distinction between direct and collateral consequences."  655 F. 3d, at 691.  Judge Williams dissented.  Agreeing with the Third Circuit's view, she argued that Padilla "broke no new ground" because it merely applied established law about a lawyer's "duty to consult" with a client.  655 F. 3d, at 695 (quoting United States v. Orocio, 645 F. 3d 630, 638-639 (CA3 2011) (internal quotation marks omitted)).
     We granted certiorari, 566 U. S. ___ (2012), to resolve a split among federal and state courts on whether Padilla applies retroactively.2  Holding that it does not, we affirm the Seventh Circuit.
II
     Teague makes the retroactivity of our criminal procedure decisions turn on whether they are novel.  When we announce a "new rule," a person whose conviction is already final may not benefit from the decision in a habeas or similar proceeding.3  Only when we apply a settled rule may a person avail herself of the decision on collateral review.  Here, Chaidez filed her coram nobis petition five years after her guilty plea became final.  Her challenge therefore fails if Padilla declared a new rule.
     "[A] case announces a new rule," Teague explained, "when it breaks new ground or imposes a new obligation" on the government.  489 U. S., at 301.  "To put it differ-ently," we continued, "a case announces a new rule if the result was not dictated by precedent existing at the time the defendant's conviction became final."  Ibid.  And a holding is not so dictated, we later stated, unless it would have been "apparent to all reasonable jurists."  Lambrix v. Singletary, 520 U. S. 518, 527-528 (1997).
     But that account has a flipside.  Teague also made clear that a case does not "announce a new rule, [when] it '[is] merely an application of the principle that governed' " a prior decision to a different set of facts.  489 U. S., at 307 (quoting Yates v. Aiken, 484 U. S. 211, 217 (1988)).  As Justice Kennedy has explained, "[w]here the beginning point" of our analysis is a rule of "general application, a rule designed for the specific purpose of evaluating a myriad of factual contexts, it will be the infrequent case that yields a result so novel that it forges a new rule, one not dictated by precedent."  Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 309 (1992) (concurring in judgment); see also Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (2000).  Otherwise said, when all we do is apply a general standard to the kind of factual circumstances it was meant to address, we will rarely state a new rule for Teague purposes.
     Because that is so, garden-variety applications of the test in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), for assessing claims of ineffective assistance of counsel do not produce new rules.  In Strickland, we held that legal representation violates the Sixth Amendment if it falls "below an objective standard of reasonableness," as indicated by "prevailing professional norms," and the defendant suffers prejudice as a result.  Id., at 687-688.  That standard, we later concluded, "provides sufficient guidance for resolving virtually all" claims of ineffective assistance, even though their particular circumstances will differ.  Williams, 529 U. S., at 391.  And so we have granted relief under Strickland in diverse contexts without ever suggesting that doing so required a new rule.  See, e.g., ibid.; Rompilla v. Beard, 545 U. S. 374 (2005); Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U. S. 510 (2003).4  In like manner, Padilla would not have created a new rule had it only applied Strickland's general standard to yet another factual situation--that is, had Padilla merely made clear that a lawyer who neglects to inform a client about the risk of deportation is professionally incompetent.
     But Padilla did something more.  Before deciding if failing to provide such advice "fell below an objective stan-dard of reasonableness," Padilla considered a threshold question: Was advice about deportation "categorically removed" from the scope of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel because it involved only a "collateral consequence" of a conviction, rather than a component of the criminal sentence?  559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7-9).5  In other words, prior to asking how the Strickland test applied ("Did this attorney act unreasonably?"), Padilla asked whether the Strickland test applied ("Should we even evaluate if this attorney acted unreasonably?").  And as we will describe, that preliminary question about Strickland's ambit came to the Padilla Court unsettled--so that the Court's answer ("Yes, Strickland governs here") required a new rule.
     The relevant background begins with our decision in Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), which explicitly left open whether advice concerning a collateral consequence must satisfy Sixth Amendment requirements.  Hill pleaded guilty to first-degree murder after his attorney misinformed him about his parole eligibility.  In addressing his claim of ineffective assistance, we first held that the Strickland standard extends generally to the plea process.  See Hill, 474 U. S., at 57.  We then determined, however, that Hill had failed to allege prejudice from the lawyer's error and so could not prevail under that standard.  See id., at 60.  That conclusion allowed us to avoid another, more categorical question: whether advice about parole (however inadequate and prejudicial) could possibly violate the Sixth Amendment.  The Court of Appeals, we noted, had held "that parole eligibility is a collateral rather than a direct consequence of a guilty plea, of which a defendant need not be informed."  Id., at 55.  But our ruling on prejudice made "it unnecessary to determine whether there may be circumstances under which" advice about a matter deemed collateral violates the Sixth Amendment.  Id., at 60.6
     That non-decision left the state and lower federal courts to deal with the issue; and they almost unanimously concluded that the Sixth Amendment does not require attorneys to inform their clients of a conviction's collateral consequences, including deportation.  All 10 federal appellate courts to consider the question decided, in the words of one, that "counsel's failure to inform a defendant of the collateral consequences of a guilty plea is never" a violation of the Sixth Amendment.  Santos-Sanchez v. United States, 548 F. 3d 327, 334 (CA5 2008).7  That constitutional guarantee, another typical decision expounded, "assures an accused of effective assistance of counsel in 'criminal prosecutions' "; accordingly, advice about matters like deportation, which are "not a part of or enmeshed in the criminal proceeding," does not fall within the Amendment's scope.  United States v. George, 869 F. 2d 333, 337 (CA7 1989).  Appellate courts in almost 30 States agreed.8  By contrast, only two state courts held that an attorney could violate the Sixth Amendment by failing to inform a client about deportation risks or other collateral consequences of a guilty plea.9  That imbalance led the authors of the principal scholarly article on the subject to call the exclusion of advice about collateral consequences from the Sixth Amendment's scope one of "the most widely recognized rules of American law."  Chin & Holmes, Effective Assistance of Counsel and the Consequences of Guilty Pleas, 87 Cornell L. Rev. 697, 706 (2002).10
     So when we decided Padilla, we answered a question about the Sixth Amendment's reach that we had left open, in a way that altered the law of most jurisdictions--and our reasoning reflected that we were doing as much.  In the normal Strickland case, a court begins by evaluating the reasonableness of an attorney's conduct in light of professional norms, and then assesses prejudice.  But as earlier indicated, see supra, at 5-6, Padilla had a different starting point.  Before asking whether the performance of Padilla's attorney was deficient under Strickland, we considered (in a separately numbered part of the opinion) whether Strickland applied at all.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7-9).  Many courts, we acknowledged, had excluded advice about collateral matters from the Sixth Amendment's ambit; and deportation, because the consequence of a distinct civil proceeding, could well be viewed as such a matter.  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  But, we continued, no decision of our own committed us to "appl[y] a distinction between direct and collateral consequences to define the scope" of the right to counsel.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  And however apt that distinction might be in other contexts, it should not exempt from Sixth Amendment scrutiny a lawyer's advice (or non-advice) about a plea's deportation risk.  Deportation, we stated, is "unique."  Ibid.  It is a "particularly severe" penalty, and one "intimately related to the criminal process"; indeed, immigration statutes make it "nearly an automatic result" of some convictions.  Ibid.  We thus resolved the threshold question before us by breaching the previously chink-free wall between direct and collateral consequences:  Notwithstanding the then-dominant view, "Strickland applies to Padilla's claim."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9).
     If that does not count as "break[ing] new ground" or "impos[ing] a new obligation," we are hard pressed to know what would.  Teague, 489 U. S., at 301.  Before Padilla, we had declined to decide whether the Sixth Amendment had any relevance to a lawyer's advice about matters not part of a criminal proceeding.  Perhaps some advice of that kind would have to meet Strickland's reasonableness standard--but then again, perhaps not: No precedent of our own "dictated" the answer.  Teague, 489 U. S., at 301.  And as the lower courts filled the vacuum, they almost uniformly insisted on what Padilla called the "categorica[l] remov[al]" of advice about a conviction's non-criminal consequences--including deportation--from the Sixth Amendment's scope.  559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).  It was Padilla that first rejected that categorical approach--and so made the Strickland test operative--when a criminal lawyer gives (or fails to give) advice about immigration consequences.11  In acknowledging that fact, we do not cast doubt on, or at all denigrate, Padilla.  Courts often need to, and do, break new ground; it is the very premise of Teague that a decision can be right and also be novel.  All we say here is that Padilla's holding that the failure to advise about a non-criminal consequence could violate the Sixth Amendment would not have been--in fact, was not--"apparent to all reasonable jurists" prior to our decision.  Lambrix, 520 U. S., at 527-528.  Padilla thus announced a "new rule."
III
     Chaidez offers, and the dissent largely adopts, a different account of Padilla, in which we did no more than apply Strickland to a new set of facts.  On Chaidez's view, Strickland insisted "[f]rom its inception" that all aspects of a criminal lawyer's performance pass a test of " 'reasonableness under prevailing professional norms' ": The decision thus foreclosed any "categorical distinction between direct and collateral consequences."  Brief for Petitioner 21-22 (emphasis deleted) (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688).  Indeed, Chaidez contends, courts prior to Padilla recognized Strickland's all-encompassing scope and so applied its reasonableness standard to advice concerning deportation.  See Brief for Petitioner 25-26; Reply Brief 10-12.  She here points to caselaw in three federal appeals courts allowing ineffective assistance claims when attorneys affirmatively misled their clients about the deportation consequences of guilty pleas.12  The only question left for Padilla to resolve, Chaidez claims, was whether professional norms also require criminal lawyers to volunteer advice about the risk of deportation.  In addressing that issue, she continues, Padilla did a run-of-the-mill Strickland analysis.  And more: It did an especially easy Strickland analysis.  We had earlier noted in INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289 (2001)--a case raising an issue of immigration law unrelated to the Sixth Amendment--that a "competent defense counsel" would inform his client about a guilty plea's deportation consequences.  Id., at 323, n. 50.  All Padilla had to do, Chaidez concludes, was recite that prior finding.
     But Chaidez's (and the dissent's) story line is wrong, for reasons we have mostly already noted: Padilla had to develop new law, establishing that the Sixth Amendment applied at all, before it could assess the performance of Padilla's lawyer under Strickland.  See supra, at 5-6, 9.  Our first order of business was thus to consider whether the widely accepted distinction between direct and collateral consequences categorically foreclosed Padilla's claim, whatever the level of his attorney's performance.  We did not think, as Chaidez argues, that Strickland barred resort to that distinction.  Far from it: Even in Padilla we did not eschew the direct-collateral divide across the board.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8) ("Whether that distinction is [generally] appropriate is a question we need not consider in this case").  Rather, we relied on the special "nature of deportation"--the severity of the penalty and the "automatic" way it follows from conviction--to show that "[t]he collateral versus direct distinction [was] ill-suited" to dispose of Padilla's claim.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8-9).  All that reasoning came before we conducted a Strickland analysis (by examining professional norms and so forth), and none of it followed ineluctably from prior law.13
     Predictably, then, the caselaw Chaidez and the dissent cite fails to support their claim that lower courts "accepted that Strickland applied to deportation advice."  Brief for Petitioner 25; see post, at 8-11.  True enough, three federal circuits (and a handful of state courts) held before Pa-dilla that misstatements about deportation could support an ineffective assistance claim.  But those decisions reasoned only that a lawyer may not affirmatively misrepresent his expertise or otherwise actively mislead his client on any important matter, however related to a criminal prosecution.  See, e.g., United States v. Kwan, 407 F. 3d 1005, 1015-1017 (CA9 2005).  They co-existed happily with precedent, from the same jurisdictions (and almost all others), holding that deportation is not "so unique as to warrant an exception to the general rule that a defendant need not be advised of the [collateral] consequences of a guilty plea."  United States v. Campbell, 778 F. 2d 764, 769 (CA11 1985).14  So at most, Chaidez has shown that a minority of courts recognized a separate rule for material misrepresentations, regardless whether they concerned deportation or another collateral matter.  That limited rule does not apply to Chaidez's case.  And because it lived in harmony with the exclusion of claims like hers from the Sixth Amendment, it does not establish what she needs to--that all reasonable judges, prior to Padilla, thought they were living in a Padilla-like world.
     Nor, finally, does St. Cyr have any relevance here.  That decision stated what is common sense (and what we again recognized in Padilla): A reasonably competent lawyer will tell a non-citizen client about a guilty plea's deportation consequences because " '[p]reserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence.' "  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (quoting St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322).  But in saying that much, St. Cyr did not determine that the Sixth Amendment requires a lawyer to provide such information.  Courts had held to the contrary not because advice about deportation was insignificant to a client--really, who could think that, whether before or after St. Cyr?--but because it concerned a matter collateral to the criminal prosecution.15  On those courts' view, the Sixth Amendment no more demanded competent advice about a plea's deportation consequences than it demanded competent representation in the deportation process itself.  Padilla decided that view was wrong.  But to repeat: It was Padilla that did so.  In the years following St. Cyr, not a single state or lower federal court considering a lawyer's failure to provide deportation advice abandoned the distinction between direct and collateral consequences, and several courts reaffirmed that divide.  See, e.g., Santos-Sanchez, 548 F. 3d, at 335-336; Broomes v. Ashcroft, 358 F. 3d 1251, 1256-1257 (CA10 2004); United States v. Fry, 322 F. 3d 1198, 1200-1201 (CA9 2003).  It took Padilla to decide that in assessing such a lawyer's performance, the Sixth Amendment sets the standard.16
IV
     This Court announced a new rule in Padilla.  Under Teague, defendants whose convictions became final prior to Padilla therefore cannot benefit from its holding.  We accordingly affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
It is so ordered.

Thomas, J., concurring in judgment
 568 U. S. ____ (2013)
No. 11-820
ROSELVA CHAIDEZ, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[February 20, 2013]

     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.
     In Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. 356 (2010), this Court held that the Sixth Amendment requires an attorney for a criminal defendant to apprise his client of the risk of deportation created by a guilty plea.  I dissented.  The Sixth Amendment provides that "[i]n all criminal prosecutions," an accused enjoys the right "to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence."  By its terms, this right extends "to legal advice directly related to defense against prosecution of the charged offense," and "[t]here is no basis in text or in principle" to expand the reach of this guarantee to guidance concerning the collateral consequences of a guilty plea.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2-3) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  Today, the Court finds that Padilla announced a new rule of constitutional law and that, under our decision in Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), "defendants whose convictions became final prior to Padilla therefore cannot benefit from its holding."  Ante, at 15.  I continue to believe that Padilla was wrongly decided and that the Sixth Amendment does not extend--either prospectively or retrospectively--to advice concerning the collateral consequences arising from a guilty plea.  I, therefore, believe that the Teague analysis is unnecessary and thus concur only in the judgment.

Sotomayor, J., dissenting
 568 U. S. ____ (2013)
No. 11-820
ROSELVA CHAIDEZ, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[February 20, 2013]

     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.
     The Court holds today that Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___ (2010), announced a "new" rule within the meaning of Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 301 (1989), and so does not apply to convictions that became final before its announcement.  That is wrong, because Padilla did nothing more than apply the existing rule of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), in a new setting, the same way the Court has done repeatedly in the past: by surveying the relevant professional norms and concluding that they unequivocally required attorneys to provide advice about the immigration consequences of a guilty plea.  Because Padilla fell squarely within the metes and bounds established by Strickland, I respectfully dissent.
I
A
     The majority correctly sets forth the governing legal principles under Teague and Strickland.  Ante, at 4-5.  The Teague inquiry turns centrally on the "nature of the rule" in question, and for that reason, "[w]here the beginning point is a rule of . . . general application, . . . it will be the infrequent case that yields a result so novel that it forges a new rule."  Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 308-309 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment); see ante, at 4-5.  The majority makes the important observation that "when all we do is apply a general standard to the kind of factual circumstances it was meant to address, we will rarely state a new rule."  Ibid.  It makes sense, then, that "garden-variety applications of . . . Strickland . . . do not produce new rules."  Ante, at 5.
     In Strickland, we did not provide a comprehensive definition of deficient performance, and instead held that "[t]he proper measure of attorney performance remains simply reasonableness under prevailing professional norms."  466 U. S., at 688.  Strickland's reasonableness prong therefore takes its content from the standards by which lawyers judge their professional obligations, ibid., and those standards are subject to change.  That is why, despite the many different settings in which it has been applied, we have never found that an application of Strickland resulted in a new rule.1
     Significantly, we have previously found that applications of Strickland to new factual scenarios are not barred under 28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1) of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA).  Section 2254(d)(1) precludes habeas relief unless a state court decision violates "clearly established Federal law," which, as relevant here, largely overlaps with the inquiry under Teague of whether a decision was "dictated by precedent."  489 U. S., at 301 (plurality opinion).2  In Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U. S. 510, 522 (2003), for example, we found that Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362 (2000), "made no new law" when it held that Strickland extended to an attorney's responsibility to conduct a background investigation in a capital case.  Rather, we explained that "in referring to the ABA Standards for Criminal Justice as guides, [Williams] applied the same 'clearly established' precedent of Strickland we apply today."  539 U. S., at 522.  Similarly, in Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. ___, ___, ___-___ (2012) (slip op., at 6, 14-16), we rejected the argument advanced by the Solicitor General that the Sixth Amendment did not extend to advice about a plea offer because it did not impact the fairness of the trial.  Instead, we simply held that Strickland applied to this form of attorney misconduct.
     In short, where we merely apply Strickland in a way that corresponds to an evolution in professional norms, we make no new law.
B
     Contrary to the majority's reconstruction, Padilla is built squarely on the foundation laid out by Strickland.  Padilla relied upon controlling precedent.  It began by reciting the basic rule that "[u]nder Strickland, we first determine whether counsel's representation 'fell below an objective standard of reasonableness.' "  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688).  We recognized that "[t]he first prong--constitutional deficiency--is necessarily linked to the practice and expectations of the legal community: '[t]he proper measure of attorney performance remains reasonableness under prevailing professional norms.' "  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688).
     We therefore examined the substantial changes in federal immigration law that provided the backdrop to the relevant professional standards.  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2-6).  Pursuant to the Immigration Act of 1917, 39 Stat. 889-890, a judge could recommend that a defendant who had committed a deportable offense not be removed from the country.  Congress entirely eliminated this procedure in 1990.  104 Stat. 5050.  Then the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), 110 Stat. 3009-596, abolished the Attorney General's authority to grant discretionary relief from removal for all but a small number of offenses.  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  These changes in immigration law meant that for a noncitizen who committed a removable offense, "removal [had become] practically inevitable."  Ibid.
     In parallel with these developments, the standards of professional responsibility relating to immigration had become more demanding.  "For at least the past 15 years," we observed in Padilla, "professional norms have generally imposed an obligation on counsel to provide advice on the deportation consequences of a client's plea."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15).  Citing an array of practice guides and professional responsibility manuals, we noted that "[t]he weight of prevailing professional norms supports the view that counsel must advise her client regarding the risk of deportation."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9). Indeed, "authorities of every stripe--including the American Bar Association, criminal defense and public defender organizations, authoritative treatises, and state and city bar publications--universally require defense attorneys to advise as to the risk of deportation consequences for non-citizen clients."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted).
     We drew further support for our conclusion that professional standards required advice about deportation consequences from our decision in INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289 (2001).  See Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10-11) (citing St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 323).  In St. Cyr, we had explained that the availability of discretionary relief from removal was critical to a noncitizen's decision to accept a plea offer, and expected counsel to follow the instructions of "numerous practice guides," such as the ABA's Standards for Criminal Justice, to inform themselves of the possible immigration consequences of a plea.  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11) (citing St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 323, n. 50); see id., at 322, n. 48.  And we there found that many States already required that a trial judge advise defendants of the same.  Ibid.  St. Cyr thus "recognized that 'preserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence.' "  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (quoting St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322).
     Our application of Strickland in Padilla followed naturally from these earlier observations about changes in immigration law and the accompanying evolution of professional norms.  When we decided St. Cyr and Padilla, nothing about Strickland's substance or applicability had changed.  The only difference from prior law was that the underlying professional norms had changed such that counsel's failure to give this advice now amounted to constitutionally deficient performance.3  Both before Padilla and after, counsel was obligated to follow the relevant professional norms.  It was only because those norms reflected changes in immigration law that Padilla reached the result it did, not because the Sixth Amendment right had changed at all.
II
A
     Accepting that routine applications of Strickland do not result in new rules, the majority nevertheless holds that Padilla went a step further.  In its view, Padilla " 'br[oke] new ground' " by addressing the threshold question of whether advice about deportation is a collateral consequence of a criminal conviction that falls within the scope of the Sixth Amendment.  Ante, at 9-10.  But that is wrong, because Padilla declined to embrace the very distinction between collateral and direct consequences of a criminal conviction that the majority says it did.  In fact, the Court stated very clearly that it found the distinction irrelevant for the purposes of determining a defense lawyer's obligation to provide advice about the immigration consequences of a plea.  559 U. S., at ___, n. 8 (slip op., at 7, n. 8).  We asserted that we had "never applied a distinction between direct and collateral consequences to define the scope of constitutionally 'reasonable professional assistance' required under Strickland," and concluded that "[w]hether that distinction is appropriate is a question we need not consider in this case."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (emphasis added).  The distinction was "ill suited" to the task at hand, we explained, because deportation has a "close connection to the criminal process," and is "uniquely difficult to classify as either a direct or a collateral consequence."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8-9). Indeed, "[o]ur law ha[d] enmeshed criminal convictions and the penalty of deportation for nearly a century," and we had "long recognized" that deportation is "particularly severe."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).4
     At bottom, then, the majority's argument hinges upon a distinction the Court has never embraced and that Padilla found irrelevant to the issue it ultimately decided.  Without this revision to our recent decisional history, the majority's analysis unravels.
B
     The majority finds that the "legal landscape," Graham v. Collins, 506 U. S. 461, 468 (1993), before Padilla was nearly uniform in its rejection of Strickland's application to the deportation consequences of a plea.  Ante, at 7-10.  It concludes that the lower courts were generally in agreement that the Sixth Amendment did not require attorneys to inform clients of the collateral consequences of a plea, and that this weighs heavily in favor of finding that Padilla announced a new rule.  Ante, at 7-8, nn. 7, 8.  But the majority's discussion of these precedents operates at too high a level of generality and fails to account for the development of professional standards over time.  St. Cyr noted the importance of advising clients about immigration consequences was of recent vintage, indeed more recent than some of the cases the majority cites.  See 533 U. S., at 322-323.  The Court relies upon decisions issued over a period that spans more than 30 years.  See ante, at 7-8, nn. 7, 8.  Nearly half of them (17) were decided before the enactment of IIRIRA.  See ibid.  And all but two of the Federal Court of Appeals cases were decided before St. Cyr.  See ante, at 7-8, nn. 7, 8. These earlier decisions show nothing more than that the underlying professional norms had not yet evolved to require attorneys to provide advice about deportation consequences.
     Cases from the period following IIRIRA and St. Cyr undermine the majority's generalizations about the state of the law before Padilla.  Deportation had long been understood by lower courts to present "the most difficult" penalty to classify as either a collateral or direct consequence.  United States v. Russell, 686 F. 2d 35, 38 (CADC 1982); cf. Janvier v. United States, 793 F. 2d 449, 455 (CA2 1986) (holding that Strickland applied to advice about a judicial recommendation against deportation). Eventually, and in parallel with changes in federal immigration law and the corresponding professional norms, the lower courts had acknowledged an important qualification to the collateral consequences rule.  After the passage of IIRIRA and this Court's decision in St. Cyr, many courts concluded that a lawyer's affirmative misstatements about the immigration consequences of a guilty plea can constitute deficient performance under Strickland.  Indeed, each Federal Court of Appeals to address the question after St. Cyr so held. See United States v. Couto, 311 F. 3d 179, 188 (CA2 2002); United States v. Kwan, 407 F. 3d 1005, 1015 (CA9 2005); cf. Downs-Morgan v. United States, 765 F. 2d 1534, 1540-1541 (CA11 1985).5  State-court decisions from this period were in accord and relied upon similar reasoning.6
     These decisions created an important exception to the collateral/direct consequences distinction.  They also foreshadowed the Court's reasoning in Padilla by basing their analysis of the relevant professional norms on the special nature of deportation, the ABA standards governing immigration practice, and the Court's assessment of those standards in St Cyr.  See Kwan, 407 F. 3d, at 1016 ("That counsel may have misled [the defendant] out of ignorance is no excuse.  It is a basic rule of professional conduct that a lawyer must . . . [remain] abreast of changes in the law and its practice. . . .  Counsel's performance . . . fell below the [ABA]'s ethical standard for criminal defense attorneys with respect to immigration consequences.  The Supreme Court noted this standard in [St. Cyr]"); Couto, 311 F. 3d, at 187-191 (citing St. Cyr and the relevant ABA standards, and concluding that "recent Supreme Court authority supports [a] broader view of attorney responsibility" that encompasses affirmative misrepresentations about deportation consequences); see also Downs-Morgan, 765 F. 2d, at 1541 ("[D]eportation and exclusion [are] harsh consequences").
     The majority believes that these decisions did not meaningfully alter the state of the law in the lower courts before Padilla, because they merely applied the age-old principle that a lawyer may not affirmatively mislead a client.  Ante, at 12-13.  But, as explained, the reasoning of these cases renders that characterization at best incomplete.  See, e.g., Kwan, 407 F. 3d, at 1016.  While these lower court precedents are consistent with the general principle that attorneys should not mislead clients by providing incorrect advice, they did not rest primarily on that rule.  Rather, they recognized the significant changes in professional norms that predated Padilla and that we had noted in St. Cyr.  As a consequence, the "wall between direct and collateral consequences" that the lower courts had erected, ante, at 9, had already been dealt a serious blow by the time the Court decided Padilla.
     As the majority points out, these misrepresentation cases stopped short of imposing an affirmative obligation on lawyers to consult with clients about the consequences of deportation.  Ante, at 12-13.  But the majority places too much emphasis on the absence of lower court authority finding that an attorney's omissions with respect to deportation resulted in ineffective assistance.  The distinction between omissions and affirmative misrepresentations on which these lower court cases depended cannot be reconciled with Strickland.  In Padilla itself, we rejected the Solicitor General's suggestion that Strickland should apply to advice about the immigration consequences of a plea only in cases where defense counsel makes an affirmative misstatement.  Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12).  We did so because we found that Strickland was incompatible with the distinction between an obligation to give advice and a prohibition on affirmative misstatements.  559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12-13) (citing Strickland, 466 U. S., at 690).  Strickland made clear that its standard of attorney performance applied to both "acts" and "omissions," and that a rule limiting the performance inquiry to one or the other was too narrow.  466 U. S., at 690.  Thus, the distinction between misrepresentations and omissions, on which the majority relies in classifying lower court precedent, implies a categorical rule that is inconsistent with Strickland's requirement of a case-by-case assessment of an attorney's performance.7 Id., at 688-689; see, e.g., Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470, 479 (2000).  In short, that some courts have differentiated between misleading by silence and affirmative misrepresentation hardly establishes the rationality of the distinction.  Notably, the Court offers no reasoned basis for believing that such a distinction can be extracted from Strickland.
     To be sure, lower courts did continue to apply the distinction between collateral and direct consequences after St. Cyr.  See ante, at 13-14; see, e.g., Broomes v. Ashcroft, 358 F. 3d 1251, 1256-1257 (CA10 2004).  Even so, and even assuming the misrepresentation cases did not call the distinction into question, the existence of these lower court decisions is not dispositive.  "[T]he standard for determining when a case establishes a new rule is 'objective,' and the mere existence of conflicting authority does not necessarily mean a rule is new." Wright, 505 U. S., at 304 (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment) (citing Stringer v. Black, 503 U. S. 222, 237 (1992)); see Graham v. Collins, 506 U. S. 461, 506 (1993) (Souter, J., dissenting).
     Where the application of Strickland was straightforward, rooted in 15 years of professional standards and the Court's prior St. Cyr decision, there is no reason to put these lower court cases, many from more than a decade earlier, ahead of this Court's simple and clear reasoning in Padilla.  Nevertheless, the majority reaches the paradoxical conclusion that by declining to apply a collateral-consequence doctrine the Court had never adopted, Padilla announced a new rule.
III
     What truly appears to drive the majority's analysis is its sense that Padilla occasioned a serious disruption in lower court decisional reasoning.  See, e.g., ante, at 9-10 ("If that does not count as 'break[ing] new ground' . . . we are hard pressed to know what would" (quoting Teague, 489 U. S., at 301)).  The concurring and dissenting opinions in Padilla similarly reflected the impression that it was a significant and destabilizing decision.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 3); id., at ___  (Scalia, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 5) (describing the majority opinion as a "sledge hammer"); ante, at 8-9, n. 10.  But the fact that a decision was perceived as momentous or consequential, particularly by those who disagreed with it, does not control in the Teague analysis.  Faithfully applying the Teague rule depends instead on an examination of this Court's reasoning and an objective assessment of the precedent at issue.  Stringer, 503 U. S., at 237.  In Padilla, we did nothing more than apply Strickland.  By holding to the contrary, today's decision deprives defendants of the fundamental protection of Strickland, which requires that lawyers comply with professional norms with respect to any advice they provide to clients.
*  *  *
     Accordingly, I would reverse the judgment of the Seventh Circuit and hold that Padilla applies retroactively on collateral review to convictions that became final before its announcement.  With respect, I dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 A petition for a writ of coram nobis provides a way to collaterally attack a criminal conviction for a person, like Chaidez, who is no longer "in custody" and therefore cannot seek habeas relief under 28 U. S. C. §2255 or §2241.  See United States v. Morgan, 346 U. S. 502, 507, 510-511 (1954).  Chaidez and the Government agree that nothing in this case turns on the difference between a coram nobis petition and a habeas petition, and we assume without deciding that they are correct.
Footnote 2 Compare 655 F. 3d 684 (CA7 2011) (case below) (not retroactive); United States v. Amer, 681 F. 3d 211 (CA5 2012) (same); United States v. Chang Hong, 671 F. 3d 1147 (CA10 2011) (same); State v. Gaitan, 209 N. J. 339, 37 A. 3d 1089 (2012) (same), with United States v. Orocio, 645 F. 3d 630 (CA3 2011) (retroactive); Commonwealth v. Clarke, 460 Mass. 30, 949 N. E. 2d  892 (2011) (same).
Footnote 3 Teague stated two exceptions: "[W]atershed rules of criminal procedure" and rules placing "conduct beyond the power of the [government] to proscribe" apply on collateral review, even if novel.  489 U. S., at 311 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Chaidez does not argue that either of those exceptions is relevant here.
Footnote 4 We did not consider Teague in Williams, Rompilla, and Wiggins, but we granted habeas relief pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2254(d)(1) because state courts had unreasonably applied "clearly established" law.  And, as we have explained, "clearly established" law is not "new" within the meaning of Teague.  See Williams, 529 U. S., at 412.
Footnote 5 We have never attempted to delineate the world of "collateral consequences," see Padilla, 559 U. S., at ___, n. 8 (slip op., at 7, n. 8), nor do we do so here.  But other effects of a conviction commonly viewed as collateral include civil commitment, civil forfeiture, sex offender registration, disqualification from public benefits, and disfranchisement.  See id., at ___ (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2-3) (listing other examples).
Footnote 6 In saying that much, we declined to rule not only on whether advice about a conviction's collateral consequences falls outside the Sixth Amendment's scope, but also on whether parole eligibility should be considered such a consequence, as the court of appeals held.
Footnote 7 See Broomes v. Ashcroft, 358 F. 3d 1251, 1256 (CA10 2004); United States v. Fry, 322 F. 3d 1198, 1200-1201 (CA9 2003); United States v. Gonzalez, 202 F. 3d 20, 25 (CA1 2000); Russo v. United States, 1999 WL 164951, *2 (CA2, Mar. 22, 1999); Ogunbase v. United States, 1991 WL 11619, *1 (CA6, Feb. 5, 1991); United States v. Del Rosario, 902 F. 2d 55, 58-59 (CADC 1990); United States v. George, 869 F. 2d 333, 337 (CA7 1989); United States v. Yearwood, 863 F. 2d 6, 7-8 (CA4 1988); United States v. Campbell, 778 F. 2d 764, 768-769 (CA11 1985).
Footnote 8 Rumpel v. State, 847 So. 2d 399, 402-405 (Ala. Crim. App. 2002); Tafoya v. State, 500 P. 2d 247, 252 (Alaska 1972); State v. Rosas, 183 Ariz. 421, 423, 904 P. 2d 1245, 1247 (App. 1995); Niver v. Commissioner of Correction, 101 Conn. App. 1, 3-5, 919 A. 2d 1073, 1075-1076 (2007) (per curiam); State v. Christie, 655 A. 2d 836, 841 (Del. Super. 1994); Matos v. United States, 631 A. 2d 28, 31-32 (D. C. 1993); Major v. State, 814 So. 2d 424, 431 (Fla. 2002); People v. Huante, 143 Ill. 2d 61, 68-71, 571 N. E. 2d 736, 740-741 (1991); State v. Ramirez, 636 N. W. 2d 740, 743-746 (Iowa 2001); State v. Muriithi, 273 Kan. 952, 961, 46 P. 3d 1145, 1152 (2002); Commonwealth v. Fuartado, 170 S. W. 3d 384, 385-386 (Ky. 2005); State v. Montalban, 2000-2739, p. 4 (La. 2/26/02), 810 So. 2d 1106, 1110; Commonwealth v. Fraire, 55 Mass. App. 916, 917, 774 N. E. 2d 677, 678-679 (2002); People v. Davidovich, 463 Mich. 446, 452, 618 N. W. 2d 579, 582 (2000) (per curiam); State ex rel. Nixon v. Clark, 926 S. W. 2d 22, 25 (Mo. App. 1996); State v. Zarate, 264 Neb. 690, 693-696, 651 N. W. 2d 215, 221-223 (2002); Barajas v. State, 115 Nev. 440, 441-442, 991 P. 2d 474, 475-476 (1999) (per curiam); State v. Chung, 210 N. J. Super. 427, 434, 510 A. 2d 72, 76 (App. Div. 1986); People v. Ford, 86 N. Y. 2d 397, 403-404, 657 N. E. 2d 265, 268-269 (1995); State v. Dalman, 520 N. W. 2d 860, 863-864 (N. D. 1994); Commonwealth v. Frometa, 520 Pa. 552, 555-557, 555 A. 2d 92, 93-94 (1989); State v. Alejo, 655 A. 2d 692, 692-693 (R. I. 1995); Nikolaev v. Weber, 2005 S. D. 100, ¶¶11-12, 705 N. W. 2d 72, 75-77 (per curiam); Bautista v. State, 160 S. W. 3d 917, 922 (Tenn. Crim. App. 2004); Perez v. State, 31 S. W. 3d 365, 367-368 (Tex. App. 2000); State v. Rojas-Martinez, 2005 UT 86, ¶¶15-20, 125 P. 3d 930, 934-935; State v. Martinez-Lazo, 100 Wash. App. 869, 876-878, 999 P. 2d 1275, 1279-1280 (2000); State v. Santos, 136 Wis. 2d 528, 531, 401 N. W. 2d 856, 858 (App. 1987).
Footnote 9 People v. Pozo, 746 P. 2d 523, 527-529 (Colo. 1987); State v. Paredez, 2004-NMSC-036, ¶¶17-19, 136 N. M. 533, 539, 101 P. 3d 799, 805.
Footnote 10 The dissent is therefore wrong to claim that we emphasize "the absence of lower court authority" holding that an attorney's failure to advise about deportation violated the Sixth Amendment.  Post, at 10 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). We instead point to the presence of lower court authority--in case after case and jurisdiction after jurisdiction--holding that such a failure, because relating to a collateral matter, could not do so.
Footnote 11 The separate opinions in Padilla objected to just this aspect of the Court's ruling.  Dissents have been known to exaggerate the novelty of majority opinions; and "the mere existence of a dissent," like the existence of conflicting authority in state or lower federal courts, does not establish that a rule is new.  Beard v. Banks, 542 U. S. 406, 416, n. 5 (2004); see Williams, 529 U. S., at 410.  But the concurring and dissenting opinions in Padilla were on to something when they described the line the Court was crossing.  "Until today," Justice Alito wrote, "the longstanding and unanimous position of the federal courts was that reasonable defense counsel generally need only advise a client about the direct consequences of a criminal conviction."  See 559 U. S., at ___ (concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2).  Or again, this time from Justice Scalia: "[U]ntil today," the Sixth Amendment guaranteed only "legal advice directly related to defense against prosecution" of a criminal charge.  Id., at ___ (dissenting) (slip op., at 2).  One need not agree with any of the separate opinions' criticisms of Padilla to concur with their view that it modified governing law.
Footnote 12 See United States v. Kwan, 407 F. 3d 1005, 1015-1017 (CA9 2005); United States v. Couto, 311 F. 3d 179, 188 (CA2 2002); Downs-Morgan v. United States, 765 F. 2d 1534, 1540-1541 (CA11 1985).
Footnote 13 The dissent's entire analysis founders on this most basic point.  In its lengthy description of Padilla, the dissent picks up in the middle--after the Court concluded that the direct-collateral distinction did not preclude finding that Padilla's lawyer provided ineffective assistance under the Sixth Amendment.  See post, at 3-5.  The dissent justifies ignoring that threshold conclusion on the ground that "Padilla declined to embrace the . . . distinction between collateral and direct consequences" and "stated very clearly that it found the distinction irrelevant" to the case.  Post, at 6.  But it is exactly in refusing to apply the direct-collateral distinction that the Padilla Court did something novel.  Before then, as the Court forthrightly acknowledged, that distinction would have doomed Padilla's claim in well-nigh every court in the United States.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7); supra, at 9.
Footnote 14 See also Resendiz v. Kovensky, 416 F. 3d 952, 957 (CA9 2005) ("[B]ecause immigration consequences remain collateral, the failure of counsel to advise his client of the potential immigration consequences of a conviction does not violate the Sixth Amendment"); Russo v. United States, 1999 WL 164951, *2 ("[C]ounsel cannot be found ineffective for the mere failure to inform a defendant of the collateral consequences of a plea, such as deportation") (relying on United States v. Santelises, 509 F. 2d 703, 704 (CA2 1975) (per curiam)).
Footnote 15 The dissent claims the opposite, averring that lower court "decisions show nothing more than that the underlying professional norms had not yet evolved to require attorneys to provide advice about deportation consequences."  Post, at 8.  But the dissent cannot point to a single decision stating that a lawyer's failure to offer advice about deportation met professional norms; all the decisions instead held that a lawyer's breach of those norms was constitutionally irrelevant because deportation was a collateral consequence.  See supra, at 7.  Had courts in fact considered professional standards in the slew of cases before Padilla that presented Padilla-like claims, they would have discovered as early as 1968 that the American Bar Association instructed criminal lawyers to advise their non-citizen clients about the risks of deportation.  See 3 ABA Project on Standards for Criminal Justice, Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty §3.2(b), Commentary, p. 71 (App. Draft 1968).  The difficulty in upholding such claims prior to Padilla had nothing to do with courts' view of professional norms and everything to do with their use of the direct-collateral divide.
Footnote 16 Chaidez makes two back-up arguments in her merits briefs--that Teague's bar on retroactivity does not apply when a petitioner chal-lenges a federal conviction, or at least does not do so when she makes a claim of ineffective assistance.  Brief for Petitioner 27-39.  But Chaidez did not include those issues in her petition for certiorari.  Nor, still more critically, did she adequately raise them in the lower courts.  Only her petition for rehearing en banc in the Seventh Circuit at all questioned Teague's applicability, and her argument there--that a "Teague-light" standard should apply to challenges to federal convictions--differs from the ones she has made in this Court.  See Petition for Rehearing and for Rehearing En Banc in No. 10-3623 (CA7), p. 13.  Moreover, we cannot find any case in which a federal court has considered Chaidez's contention that Teague should not apply to ineffective assistance claims.  "[M]indful that we are a court of review, not of first view," we decline to rule on Chaidez's new arguments.  Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 See, e.g., Lafler v. Cooper, 566 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2012) (incorrect advice leading to a plea offer's rejection); Rompilla v. Beard, 545 U. S. 374 (2005) (failure to investigate evidence the prosecution intended to use to prove an aggravating circumstance in a capital case); Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U. S. 510 (2003) (failure to investigate a defendant's social history in a capital case); Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470 (2000) (failure to consult with a defendant regarding whether to pursue an appeal); Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 391 (2000) (failure to investigate a defendant's background for the purposes of mitigation evidence in a capital case); Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985) (failure to provide effective assistance during plea negotiations).
Footnote 2 AEDPA of course differs from the Teague rule in other important respects.  See, e.g., Greene v. Fisher, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 5).  But these differences aside, the fact that we have repeatedly found AEDPA cases involving Strickland to be controlled by established precedent underscores that the application of Strickland in a new context should almost never result in a new rule.
Footnote 3 Even before IIRIRA and St. Cyr, lawyers of course understood that it was good practice to inform clients of the deportation consequences of a plea.  See ante, at 14, n. 15 (citing 3 ABA Project on Standards for Criminal Justice, Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty §3.2(b), Commentary, p. 71 (App. Draft 1968)).  Following the sea change in immigration law, however, the professional norms had become so established and universally recognized that the measure of constitutionally adequate performance now included giving such advice in the form Padilla recognized.  See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
Footnote 4 See, e.g., INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 322 (2001) (noting that "[p]reserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important . . . than any potential jail sentence" (internal quotation marks omitted)); Jordan v. De George, 341 U. S. 223, 243 (1951) (Jackson, J., dissenting) (deportation proceedings "practically . . . are [criminal] for they extend the criminal process of sentencing to include on the same convictions an additional punishment"); Fong Haw Tan v. Phelan, 333 U. S. 6, 10 (1948) ("[D]eportation is a drastic measure and at times the equivalent of banishment or exile"); Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284 (1922) (deportation may result in "loss of both property and life; or of all that makes life worth living"); Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 740 (1893) (Brewer, J., dissenting) ("Every one knows that to be forcibly taken away from home, and family, and friends, and business, and property, and sent across the ocean to a distant land, is punishment; and that oftentimes most severe and cruel").
Footnote 5 See United States v. Mora-Gomez, 875 F. Supp. 1208, 1212 (ED Va. 1995) ("[T]he clear consensus is that an affirmative misstatement regarding deportation may constitute ineffective assistance").
Footnote 6 See Rubio v. State, 124 Nev. 1032, 1041, 194 P. 3d 1224, 1230 (2008) (per curiam) ("Like other jurisdictions, we recognize the particularly harsh and penal nature of deportation.  The Supreme Court of the United States has described deportation as 'a drastic measure and at times the equivalent of banishment or exile' and further depicted it as 'a penalty.' . . . Perhaps understanding the harshness of deportation, a growing number of jurisdictions have adopted the affirmative misrepresentation exception to the collateral consequence rule"); People v. Correa, 108 Ill. 2d 541, 550-552, 485 N. E. 2d 307, 311 (1985); People v. McDonald, 1 N. Y. 3d 109, 113-115, 802 N. E. 2d 131, 134-135 (2003); see also Alguno v. State, 892 So. 2d 1200, 1201 (Fla. App. 2005) (per curiam); State v. Rojas-Martinez, 2005 UT 86 ¶¶ 15-20, 125 P. 3d 930, 933-935; In re Yim, 139 Wash. 2d 581, 588, 989 P. 2d 512, 516 (1999).
Footnote 7 The majority cites a law review article for the proposition that the categorical consequences rule is "one of 'the most widely recognized rules of American law.' " Ante, at 8 (quoting Chin & Holmes, Effective Assistance of Counsel and the Consequences of Guilty Pleas, 87 Cornell L. Rev. 697, 706 (2002)).  But the article was, in fact, quite critical of the rule.  The authors explained that "[t]he real work of  the conviction is performed by the collateral consequences," and that the direct/ collateral distinction in the context of ineffective-assistance claims was "surprising because it seems inconsistent with the framework that the Supreme Court . . . laid out" in Strickland.  Chin & Holmes, at 700-701.





United States Supreme Court
ARIZONA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES, (2012)
No. 11-182
Argued: April 25, 2012    Decided: June 25, 2012


An Arizona statute known as S. B. 1070 was enacted in 2010 to address pressing issues related to the large number of unlawful aliens in the State.  The United States sought to enjoin the law as preempted.  The District Court issued a preliminary injunction preventing four of its provisions from taking effect.  Section 3 makes failure to comply with federal alien-registration requirements a state misdemeanor; §5(C) makes it a misdemeanor for an unauthorized alien to seek or engage in work in the State; §6 authorizes state and local officers to arrest without a warrant a person "the officer has probable cause to believe . . . has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United States"; and §2(B) requires officers conducting a stop, detention, or arrest to make efforts, in some circumstances, to verify the person's immigration status with the Federal Government.  The Ninth Circuit affirmed, agreeing that the United States had established a likelihood of success on its preemption claims.
Held:
     1. The Federal Government's broad, undoubted power over immigration and alien status rests, in part, on its constitutional power to "establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," Art. I, §8, cl. 4, and on its inherent sovereign power to control and conduct foreign relations, see Toll v. Moreno, 458 U. S. 1, 10.  Federal governance is extensive and complex.  Among other things, federal law specifies categories of aliens who are ineligible to be admitted to the United States, 8 U. S. C. §1182; requires aliens to register with the Federal Government and to carry proof of status, §§1304(e), 1306(a); imposes sanctions on employers who hire unauthorized workers, §1324a; and specifies which aliens may be removed and the procedures for doing so, see §1227.  Removal is a civil matter, and one of its principal features is the broad discretion exercised by immigration officials, who must decide whether to pursue removal at all.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency within the Department of Homeland Security, is responsible for identifying, apprehending, and removing illegal aliens.  It also operates the Law Enforcement Support Center, which provides immigration status information to federal, state, and local officials around the clock.  Pp. 2-7.
     2. The Supremacy Clause gives Congress the power to preempt state law.  A statute may contain an express preemption provision, see, e.g., Chamber of Commerce of United States of America v. Whiting, 563 U. S. ___, ___, but state law must also give way to federal law in at least two other circumstances.  First, States are precluded from regulating conduct in a field that Congress has determined must be regulated by its exclusive governance.  See Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 115.  Intent can be inferred from a framework of regulation "so pervasive . . . that Congress left no room for the States to supplement it" or where a "federal interest is so dominant that the federal system will be assumed to preclude enforcement of state laws on the same subject."  Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230.  Second, state laws are preempted when they conflict with federal law, including when they stand "as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."  Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67.  Pp. 7-8.
     3. Sections 3, 5(C), and 6 of S. B. 1070 are preempted by federal law.  Pp. 8-19.
          (a) Section 3 intrudes on the field of alien registration, a field in which Congress has left no room for States to regulate.  In Hines, a state alien-registration program was struck down on the ground that Congress intended its "complete" federal registration plan to be a "single integrated and all-embracing system."  312 U. S., at 74.  That scheme did not allow the States to "curtail or complement" federal law or "enforce additional or auxiliary regulations."  Id., at 66-67.  The federal registration framework remains comprehensive.  Because Congress has occupied the field, even complementary state regulation is impermissible.  Pp. 8-11.
          (b) Section 5(C)'s criminal penalty stands as an obstacle to the federal regulatory system.  The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), a comprehensive framework for "combating the employment of illegal aliens," Hoffman Plastic Compounds, Inc. v. NLRB, 535 U. S. 137, 147, makes it illegal for employers to knowingly hire, recruit, refer, or continue to employ unauthorized workers, 8 U. S. C. §§1324a(a)(1)(A), (a)(2), and requires employers to verify prospective employees' employment authorization status, §§1324a(a)(1)(B), (b).  It imposes criminal and civil penalties on employers, §§1324a(e)(4), (f), but only civil penalties on aliens who seek, or engage in, unauthorized employment, e.g., §§1255(c)(2), (c)(8).   IRCA's express preemption provision, though silent about whether additional penalties may be imposed against employees, "does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles" or impose a "special burden" making it more difficult to establish the preemption of laws falling outside the clause.  Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 869-872.  The correct instruction to draw from the text, structure, and history of IRCA is that Congress decided it would be inappropriate to impose criminal penalties on unauthorized employees.  It follows that a state law to the contrary is an obstacle to the regulatory system Congress chose.  Pp. 12-15.
          (c) By authorizing state and local officers to make warrantless arrests of certain aliens suspected of being removable, §6 too creates an obstacle to federal law.  As a general rule, it is not a crime for a removable alien to remain in the United States.  The federal scheme instructs when it is appropriate to arrest an alien during the removal process.  The Attorney General in some circumstances will issue a warrant for trained federal immigration officers to execute.  If no federal warrant has been issued, these officers have more limited authority.  They may arrest an alien for being "in the United States in violation of any [immigration] law or regulation," for example, but only where the alien "is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained."  §1357(a)(2).  Section 6 attempts to provide state officers with even greater arrest authority, which they could exercise with no instruction from the Federal Government.  This is not the system Congress created.  Federal law specifies limited circumstances in which state officers may perform an immigration officer's functions.  This includes instances where the Attorney General has granted that authority in a formal agreement with a state or local government.  See, e.g., §1357(g)(1).  Although federal law permits state officers to "cooperate with the Attorney General in the identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens not lawfully present in the United States," §1357(g)(10)(B), this does not encompass the unilateral decision to detain authorized by §6.  Pp. 15-19.
     4. It was improper to enjoin §2(B) before the state courts had an opportunity to construe it and without some showing that §2(B)'s enforcement in fact conflicts with federal immigration law and its objectives.  Pp. 19-24.
          (a) The state provision has three limitations: A detainee is presumed not to be an illegal alien if he or she provides a valid Arizona driver's license or similar identification; officers may not consider race, color, or national origin "except to the extent permitted by the United States [and] Arizona Constitution[s]"; and §2(B) must be "implemented in a manner consistent with federal law regulating immigration, protecting the civil rights of all persons and respecting the privileges and immunities of United States citizens."  P. 20.
          (b) This Court finds unpersuasive the argument that, even with those limits, §2(B) must be held preempted at this stage.  Pp. 20-24.
               (1) The mandatory nature of the status checks does not interfere with the federal immigration scheme.  Consultation between federal and state officials is an important feature of the immigration system.  In fact, Congress has encouraged the sharing of information about possible immigration violations.  See §§1357(g)(10)(A), 1373(c).  The federal scheme thus leaves room for a policy requiring state officials to contact ICE as a routine matter.  Cf. Whiting, 563 U. S., at ___.  Pp. 20-21.
               (2) It is not clear at this stage and on this record that §2(B), in practice, will require state officers to delay the release of detainees for no reason other than to verify their immigration status.  This would raise constitutional concerns.  And it would disrupt the federal framework to put state officers in the position of holding aliens in custody for possible unlawful presence without federal direction and supervision.  But §2(B) could be read to avoid these concerns.  If the law only requires state officers to conduct a status check during the course of an authorized, lawful detention or after a detainee has been released, the provision would likely survive preemption--at least absent some showing that it has other consequences that are adverse to federal law and its objectives.  Without the benefit of a definitive interpretation from the state courts, it would be inappropriate to assume §2(B) will be construed in a way that conflicts with federal law.  Cf. Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 277.  This opinion does not foreclose other preemption and constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect.  Pp. 22-24.
641 F. 3d 339, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
     Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Scalia, J., Thomas, J., and Alito, J., filed opinions concurring in part and dissenting in part.  Kagan, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Opinion of the Court
 567 U. S. ____ (2012)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 11-182
ARIZONA, et al., PETITIONERS v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 25, 2012]

     Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
     To address pressing issues related to the large number of aliens within its borders who do not have a lawful right to be in this country, the State of Arizona in 2010 enacted a statute called the Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act.  The law is often referred to as S. B. 1070, the version introduced in the state senate.  See also H. 2162 (2010) (amending S. 1070).  Its stated purpose is to "discourage and deter the unlawful entry and presence of aliens and economic activity by persons unlawfully present in the United States."  Note following Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051 (West 2012).  The law's provisions establish an official state policy of "attrition through enforcement."  Ibid.  The question before the Court is whether federal law preempts and renders invalid four separate provisions of the state law.
I
     The United States filed this suit against Arizona, seeking to enjoin S. B. 1070 as preempted.  Four provisions of the law are at issue here.  Two create new state offenses.  Section 3 makes failure to comply with federal alien-registration requirements a state misdemeanor.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-1509 (West Supp. 2011).  Section 5, in relevant part, makes it a misdemeanor for an unauthorized alien to seek or engage in work in the State; this provision is referred to as §5(C).  See §13-2928(C).  Two other provisions give specific arrest authority and investigative duties with respect to certain aliens to state and local law enforcement officers.  Section 6 authorizes officers to arrest without a warrant a person "the officer has probable cause to believe . . . has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United States."  §13-3883(A)(5).  Section 2(B) provides that officers who conduct a stop, detention, or arrest must in some circumstances make efforts to verify the person's immigration status with the Federal Government.  See §11-1051(B) (West 2012).
     The United States District Court for the District of Arizona issued a preliminary injunction preventing the four provisions at issue from taking effect.  703 F. Supp. 2d 980, 1008 (2010).  The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed.  641 F. 3d 339, 366 (2011).  It agreed that the United States had established a likelihood of success on its preemption claims.  The Court of Appeals was unanimous in its conclusion that §§3 and 5(C) were likely preempted.  Judge Bea dissented from the decision to uphold the preliminary injunction against §§2(B) and 6.  This Court granted certiorari to resolve important questions concerning the interaction of state and federal power with respect to the law of immigration and alien status.  565 U. S. ___ (2011).
II
A
     The Government of the United States has broad, undoubted power over the subject of immigration and the status of aliens.  See Toll v. Moreno, 458 U. S. 1, 10 (1982); see generally S. Legomsky & C. Rodríguez, Immigration and Refugee Law and Policy 115-132 (5th ed. 2009).  This authority rests, in part, on the National Government's constitutional power to "establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 4, and its inherent power as sovereign to control and conduct relations with foreign nations, see Toll, supra, at 10 (citing United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 318 (1936)).
     The federal power to determine immigration policy is well settled.  Immigration policy can affect trade, investment, tourism, and diplomatic relations for the entire Nation, as well as the perceptions and expectations of aliens in this country who seek the full protection of its laws.  See, e.g., Brief for Argentina et al. as Amici Curiae; see also Harisiades v. Shaughnessy, 342 U. S. 580, 588-589 (1952).  Perceived mistreatment of aliens in the United States may lead to harmful reciprocal treatment of American citizens abroad.  See Brief for Madeleine K. Albright et al. as Amici Curiae 24-30.
     It is fundamental that foreign countries concerned about the status, safety, and security of their nationals in the United States must be able to confer and communicate on this subject with one national sovereign, not the 50 separate States.  See Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275, 279-280 (1876); see also The Federalist No. 3, p. 39 (C. Rossiter ed. 2003) (J. Jay) (observing that federal power would be necessary in part because "bordering States . . . under the impulse of sudden irritation, and a quick sense of apparent interest or injury" might take action that would undermine foreign relations).  This Court has reaffirmed that "[o]ne of the most important and delicate of all international relationships . . . has to do with the protection of the just rights of a country's own nationals when those nationals are in another country."  Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 64 (1941).
     Federal governance of immigration and alien status is extensive and complex.  Congress has specified categories of aliens who may not be admitted to the United States.  See 8 U. S. C. §1182.  Unlawful entry and unlawful reentry into the country are federal offenses.  §§1325, 1326.  Once here, aliens are required to register with the Federal Government and to carry proof of status on their person.  See §§1301-1306.  Failure to do so is a federal misdemeanor.  §§1304(e), 1306(a).  Federal law also authorizes States to deny noncitizens a range of public benefits, §1622; and it imposes sanctions on employers who hire unauthorized workers, §1324a.
     Congress has specified which aliens may be removed from the United States and the procedures for doing so.  Aliens may be removed if they were inadmissible at the time of entry, have been convicted of certain crimes, or meet other criteria set by federal law.  See §1227.  Removal is a civil, not criminal, matter.  A principal feature of the removal system is the broad discretion exercised by immigration officials.  See Brief for Former Commissioners of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service as Amici Curiae 8-13 (hereinafter Brief for Former INS Commissioners).  Federal officials, as an initial matter, must decide whether it makes sense to pursue removal at all.  If removal proceedings commence, aliens may seek asylum and other discretionary relief allowing them to remain in the country or at least to leave without formal removal.  See §1229a(c)(4); see also, e.g., §§1158 (asylum), 1229b (cancellation of removal), 1229c (voluntary departure).
     Discretion in the enforcement of immigration law embraces immediate human concerns.  Unauthorized workers trying to support their families, for example, likely pose less danger than alien smugglers or aliens who commit a serious crime.  The equities of an individual case may turn on many factors, including whether the alien has children born in the United States, long ties to the community, or a record of distinguished military service.  Some discretionary decisions involve policy choices that bear on this Nation's international relations.  Returning an alien to his own country may be deemed inappropriate even where he has committed a removable offense or fails to meet the criteria for admission.  The foreign state may be mired in civil war, complicit in political persecution, or enduring conditions that create a real risk that the alien or his family will be harmed upon return.  The dynamic nature of relations with other countries requires the Executive Branch to ensure that enforcement policies are consistent with this Nation's foreign policy with respect to these and other realities.
     Agencies in the Department of Homeland Security play a major role in enforcing the country's immigration laws.  United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is responsible for determining the admissibility of aliens and securing the country's borders.  See Dept. of Homeland Security, Office of Immigration Statistics, Immigration Enforcement Actions: 2010, p. 1 (2011).  In 2010, CBP's Border Patrol apprehended almost half a million people.  Id., at 3.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a second agency, "conducts criminal investigations involving the enforcement of immigration-related statutes."  Id., at 2.  ICE also operates the Law Enforcement Support Center.  LESC, as the Center is known, provides immigration status information to federal, state, and local officials around the clock.  See App. 91.  ICE officers are responsible "for the identification, apprehension, and removal of illegal aliens from the United States."  Immigration Enforcement Actions, supra, at 2. Hundreds of thousands of aliens are removed by the Federal Government every year.  See id., at 4 (reporting there were 387,242 removals, and 476,405 returns without a removal order, in 2010).
B
     The pervasiveness of federal regulation does not diminish the importance of immigration policy to the States.  Arizona bears many of the consequences of unlawful immigration.  Hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens are apprehended in Arizona each year.  Dept. of Homeland Security, Office of Immigration Statistics, 2010 Yearbook of Immigration Statistics 93 (2011) (Table 35).  Unauthorized aliens who remain in the State comprise, by one estimate, almost six percent of the population.  See Passel & Cohn, Pew Hispanic Center, U. S. Unauthorized Immigration Flows Are Down Sharply Since Mid-Decade 3 (2010).  And in the State's most populous county, these aliens are reported to be responsible for a disproportionate share of serious crime.  See, e.g., Camarota & Vaughan, Center for Immigration Studies, Immigration and Crime: Assessing a Conflicted Situation 16 (2009) (Table 3) (estimating that unauthorized aliens comprise 8.9% of the population and are responsible for 21.8% of the felonies in Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix).
     Statistics alone do not capture the full extent of Arizona's concerns.  Accounts in the record suggest there is an "epidemic of crime, safety risks, serious property damage, and environmental problems" associated with the influx of illegal migration across private land near the Mexican border.  Brief for Petitioners 6.  Phoenix is a major city of the United States, yet signs along an interstate highway 30 miles to the south warn the public to stay away.  One reads, "DANGER--PUBLIC WARNING--TRAVEL NOT RECOMMENDED / Active Drug and Human Smuggling Area / Visitors May Encounter Armed Criminals and Smuggling Vehicles Traveling at High Rates of Speed."  App. 170; see also Brief for Petitioners 5-6.  The problems posed to the State by illegal immigration must not be underestimated.
     These concerns are the background for the formal legal analysis that follows.  The issue is whether, under preemption principles, federal law permits Arizona to implement the state-law provisions in dispute.
III
     Federalism, central to the constitutional design, adopts the principle that both the National and State Governments have elements of sovereignty the other is bound to respect.  See Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452, 457 (1991); U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779, 838 (1995) (Kennedy, J., concurring).  From the existence of two sovereigns follows the possibility that laws can be in conflict or at cross-purposes.  The Supremacy Clause provides a clear rule that federal law "shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding."  Art. VI, cl. 2.  Under this principle, Congress has the power to preempt state law.  See Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372 (2000); Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210-211 (1824).  There is no doubt that Congress may withdraw specified powers from the States by enacting a statute containing an express preemption provision.  See, e.g., Chamber of Commerce of United States of America v. Whiting, 563 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 4).
     State law must also give way to federal law in at least two other circumstances.  First, the States are precluded from regulating conduct in a field that Congress, acting within its proper authority, has determined must be regulated by its exclusive governance.  See Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 115 (1992).  The intent to displace state law altogether can be inferred from a framework of regulation "so pervasive . . . that Congress left no room for the States to supplement it" or where there is a "federal interest . . . so dominant that the federal system will be assumed to preclude enforcement of state laws on the same subject."  Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947); see English v. General Elec. Co., 496 U. S. 72, 79 (1990).
     Second, state laws are preempted when they conflict with federal law.  Crosby, supra, at 372.  This includes cases where "compliance with both federal and state regulations is a physical impossibility," Florida Lime & Avocado Growers, Inc. v. Paul, 373 U. S. 132, 142-143 (1963), and those instances where the challenged state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress," Hines, 312 U. S., at 67; see also Crosby, supra, at 373 ("What is a sufficient obstacle is a matter of judgment, to be informed by examining the federal statute as a whole and identifying its purpose and intended effects").  In preemption analysis, courts should assume that "the historic police powers of the States" are not superseded "unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress."  Rice, supra, at 230; see Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 565 (2009).
     The four challenged provisions of the state law each must be examined under these preemption principles.
IV
A
Section 3
     Section 3 of S. B. 1070 creates a new state misdemeanor.  It forbids the "willful failure to complete or carry an alien registration document . . . in violation of 8 United States Code section 1304(e) or 1306(a)."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1509(A) (West Supp. 2011).  In effect, §3 adds a state-law penalty for conduct proscribed by federal law.  The United States contends that this state enforcement mechanism intrudes on the field of alien registration, a field in which Congress has left no room for States to regulate.  See Brief for United States 27, 31.
     The Court discussed federal alien-registration requirements in Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52.  In 1940, as international conflict spread, Congress added to federal immigration law a "complete system for alien registration."  Id., at 70.  The new federal law struck a careful balance.  It punished an alien's willful failure to register but did not require aliens to carry identification cards.  There were also limits on the sharing of registration records and fingerprints.  The Court found that Congress intended the federal plan for registration to be a "single integrated and all-embracing system."  Id., at 74.  Because this "complete scheme . . . for the registration of aliens" touched on foreign relations, it did not allow the States to "curtail or complement" federal law or to "enforce additional or auxiliary regulations."  Id., at 66-67.  As a consequence, the Court ruled that Pennsylvania could not enforce its own alien-registration program.  See id., at 59, 74.
     The present regime of federal regulation is not identical to the statutory framework considered in Hines, but it remains comprehensive. Federal law now includes a requirement that aliens carry proof of registration.  8 U. S. C. §1304(e).  Other aspects, however, have stayed the same.  Aliens who remain in the country for more than 30 days must apply for registration and be fingerprinted.  Compare §1302(a) with id., §452(a) (1940 ed.).  Detailed information is required, and any change of address has to be reported to the Federal Government.  Compare §§1304(a), 1305(a) (2006 ed.), with id., §§455(a), 456 (1940 ed.).  The statute continues to provide penalties for the willful failure to register.  Compare §1306(a) (2006 ed.), with id., §457 (1940 ed.).
     The framework enacted by Congress leads to the conclusion here, as it did in Hines, that the Federal Government has occupied the field of alien registration.  See American Ins. Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 419, n. 11 (2003) (characterizing Hines as a field preemption case); Pennsylvania v. Nelson, 350 U. S. 497, 504 (1956) (same); see also Dinh, Reassessing the Law of Preemption, 88 Geo. L. J. 2085, 2098-2099, 2107 (2000) (same).  The federal statutory directives provide a full set of standards governing alien registration, including the punishment for noncompliance.  It was designed as a " 'harmonious whole.' "  Hines, supra, at 72.  Where Congress occupies an entire field, as it has in the field of alien registration, even complementary state regulation is impermissible.  Field preemption reflects a congressional decision to foreclose any state regulation in the area, even if it is parallel to federal standards.  See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 249 (1984).
     Federal law makes a single sovereign responsible for maintaining a comprehensive and unified system to keep track of aliens within the Nation's borders.  If §3 of the Arizona statute were valid, every State could give itself independent authority to prosecute federal registration violations, "diminish[ing] the [Federal Government]'s control over enforcement" and "detract[ing] from the 'integrated scheme of regulation' created by Congress."  Wisconsin Dept. of Industry v. Gould Inc., 475 U. S. 282, 288-289 (1986).  Even if a State may make violation of federal law a crime in some instances, it cannot do so in a field (like the field of alien registration) that has been occupied by federal law.  See California v. Zook, 336 U. S. 725, 730-731, 733 (1949); see also In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372, 375-376 (1890) (States may not impose their own punishment for perjury in federal courts).
     Arizona contends that §3 can survive preemption because the provision has the same aim as federal law and adopts its substantive standards.  This argument not only ignores the basic premise of field preemption--that States may not enter, in any respect, an area the Federal Government has reserved for itself--but also is unpersuasive on its own terms.  Permitting the State to impose its own penalties for the federal offenses here would conflict with the careful framework Congress adopted.  Cf. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341, 347-348 (2001) (States may not impose their own punishment for fraud on the Food and Drug Administration); Wisconsin Dept., supra, at 288 (States may not impose their own punishment for repeat violations of the National Labor Relations Act).  Were §3 to come into force, the State would have the power to bring criminal charges against individuals for violating a federal law even in circumstances where federal officials in charge of the comprehensive scheme determine that prosecution would frustrate federal policies.
     There is a further intrusion upon the federal scheme.  Even where federal authorities believe prosecution is appropriate, there is an inconsistency between §3 and federal law with respect to penalties.  Under federal law, the failure to carry registration papers is a misdemeanor that may be punished by a fine, imprisonment, or a term of probation.  See 8 U. S. C. §1304(e) (2006 ed.); 18 U. S. C. §3561.  State law, by contrast, rules out probation as a possible sentence (and also eliminates the possibility of a pardon).  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-1509(D) (West Supp. 2011).  This state framework of sanctions creates a conflict with the plan Congress put in place.  See Wisconsin Dept., supra, at 286 ("[C]onflict is imminent whenever two separate remedies are brought to bear on the same activity" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
     These specific conflicts between state and federal law simply underscore the reason for field preemption.  As it did in Hines, the Court now concludes that, with respect to the subject of alien registration, Congress intended to preclude States from "complement[ing] the federal law, or enforc[ing] additional or auxiliary regulations."  312 U. S., at 66-67.  Section 3 is preempted by federal law.
B
Section 5(C)
     Unlike §3, which replicates federal statutory requirements, §5(C) enacts a state criminal prohibition where no federal counterpart exists.  The provision makes it a state misdemeanor for "an unauthorized alien to knowingly apply for work, solicit work in a public place or perform work as an employee or independent contractor" in Arizona.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-2928(C) (West Supp. 2011).  Violations can be punished by a $2,500 fine and incarceration for up to six months.  See §13-2928(F); see also §§13-707(A)(1) (West 2010); 13-802(A); 13-902(A)(5).  The United States contends that the provision upsets the balance struck by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) and must be preempted as an obstacle to the federal plan of regulation and control.
     When there was no comprehensive federal program regulating the employment of unauthorized aliens, this Court found that a State had authority to pass its own laws on the subject.  In 1971, for example, California passed a law imposing civil penalties on the employment of aliens who were "not entitled to lawful residence in the United States if such employment would have an adverse effect on lawful resident workers."  1971 Cal. Stats. ch. 1442, §1(a).  The law was upheld against a preemption challenge in De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351 (1976).  De Canas recognized that "States possess broad authority under their police powers to regulate the employment relationship to protect workers within the State."  Id., at 356.  At that point, however, the Federal Government had expressed no more than "a peripheral concern with [the] employment of illegal entrants."  Id., at 360; see Whiting, 563 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 3).
     Current federal law is substantially different from the regime that prevailed when De Canas was decided.  Congress enacted IRCA as a comprehensive framework for "combating the employment of illegal aliens."  Hoffman Plastic Compounds, Inc. v. NLRB, 535 U. S. 137, 147 (2002).  The law makes it illegal for employers to knowingly hire, recruit, refer, or continue to employ unauthorized workers.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1324a(a)(1)(A), (a)(2).  It also requires every employer to verify the employment authorization status of prospective employees.  See §§1324a(a) (1)(B), (b); 8 CFR §274a.2(b) (2012).  These requirements are enforced through criminal penalties and an escalating series of civil penalties tied to the number of times an employer has violated the provisions.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1324a(e)(4), (f); 8 CFR §274a.10.
     This comprehensive framework does not impose federal criminal sanctions on the employee side (i.e., penalties on aliens who seek or engage in unauthorized work).  Under federal law some civil penalties are imposed instead.  With certain exceptions, aliens who accept unlawful employment are not eligible to have their status adjusted to that of a lawful permanent resident.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1255(c)(2), (c)(8).  Aliens also may be removed from the country for having engaged in unauthorized work.  See §1227(a)(1)(C)(i); 8 CFR §214.1(e).  In addition to specifying these civil consequences, federal law makes it a crime for unauthorized workers to obtain employment through fraudulent means.  See 18 U. S. C. §1546(b).  Congress has made clear, however, that any information employees submit to indicate their work status "may not be used" for purposes other than prosecution under specified federal criminal statutes for fraud, perjury, and related conduct.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1324a(b)(5), (d)(2)(F)-(G).
     The legislative background of IRCA underscores the fact that Congress made a deliberate choice not to impose criminal penalties on aliens who seek, or engage in, unauthorized employment.  A commission established by Congress to study immigration policy and to make recommendations concluded these penalties would be "unnecessary and unworkable."  U. S. Immigration Policy and the National Interest: The Final Report and Recommendations of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy with Supplemental Views by Commissioners 65-66 (1981); see Pub. L. 95-412, §4, 92 Stat. 907.  Proposals to make unauthorized work a criminal offense were debated and discussed during the long process of drafting IRCA.  See Brief for Service Employees International Union et al. as Amici Curiae 9-12.  But Congress rejected them.  See, e.g., 119 Cong. Rec. 14184 (1973) (statement of Rep. Dennis).  In the end, IRCA's framework reflects a considered judgment that making criminals out of aliens engaged in unauthorized work--aliens who already face the possibility of employer exploitation because of their removable status--would be inconsistent with federal policy and objectives.  See, e.g., Hearings before the Subcommittee No. 1 of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 92d Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 3, pp. 919-920 (1971) (statement of Rep. Rodino, the eventual sponsor of IRCA in the House of Representatives).
     IRCA's express preemption provision, which in most instances bars States from imposing penalties on employers of unauthorized aliens, is silent about whether additional penalties may be imposed against the employees themselves.  See 8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2); Whiting, supra, at ___-___ (slip op., at 1-2).  But the existence of an "express pre-emption provisio[n] does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles" or impose a "special burden" that would make it more difficult to establish the preemption of laws falling outside the clause.  Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 869-872 (2000); see Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine, 537 U. S. 51, 65 (2002).
     The ordinary principles of preemption include the well-settled proposition that a state law is preempted where it "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."  Hines, 312 U. S., at 67.  Under §5(C) of S. B. 1070, Arizona law would interfere with the careful balance struck by Congress with respect to unauthorized employment of aliens.  Although §5(C) attempts to achieve one of the same goals as federal law--the deterrence of unlawful employment--it involves a conflict in the method of enforcement.  The Court has recognized that a "[c]onflict in technique can be fully as disruptive to the system Congress enacted as conflict in overt policy."  Motor Coach Employees v. Lockridge, 403 U. S. 274, 287 (1971).  The correct instruction to draw from the text, structure, and history of IRCA is that Congress decided it would be inappropriate to impose criminal penalties on aliens who seek or engage in unauthorized employment.  It follows that a state law to the contrary is an obstacle to the regulatory system Congress chose.  See Puerto Rico Dept. of Con- sumer Affairs v. ISLA Petroleum Corp., 485 U. S. 495, 503 (1988) ("Where a comprehensive federal scheme intentionally leaves a portion of the regulated field without controls, then the pre-emptive inference can be drawn--not from federal inaction alone, but from inaction joined with action").  Section 5(C) is preempted by federal law.
C
Section 6
     Section 6 of S. B. 1070 provides that a state officer, "without a warrant, may arrest a person if the officer has probable cause to believe . . . [the person] has committed any public offense that makes [him] removable from the United States."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-3883(A)(5) (West Supp. 2011).  The United States argues that arrests authorized by this statute would be an obstacle to the removal system Congress created.
     As a general rule, it is not a crime for a removable alien to remain present in the United States.  See INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U. S. 1032, 1038 (1984).  If the police stop someone based on nothing more than possible removability, the usual predicate for an arrest is absent.  When an alien is suspected of being removable, a federal official issues an administrative document called a Notice to Appear.  See 8 U. S. C. §1229(a); 8 CFR §239.1(a) (2012).   The form does not authorize an arrest.  Instead, it gives the alien information about the proceedings, including the time and date of the removal hearing.  See 8 U. S. C. §1229(a)(1).  If an alien fails to appear, an in absentia order may direct removal.  §1229a(5)(A).
     The federal statutory structure instructs when it is appropriate to arrest an alien during the removal process.  For example, the Attorney General can exercise discretion to issue a warrant for an alien's arrest and detention "pending a decision on whether the alien is to be removed from the United States."  8 U. S. C. §1226(a); see Memorandum from John Morton, Director, ICE, to All Field Office Directors et al., Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion Consistent with the Civil Immigration Enforcement Priorities of the Agency for the Apprehension, Detention, and Removal of Aliens (June 17, 2011) (hereinafter 2011 ICE Memorandum) (describing factors informing this and related decisions).  And if an alien is ordered removed after a hearing, the Attorney General will issue a warrant.   See 8 CFR §241.2(a)(1).  In both instances, the warrants are executed by federal officers who have received training in the enforcement of immigration law.  See §§241.2(b), 287.5(e)(3).  If no federal warrant has been issued, those officers have more limited authority.  See 8 U. S. C. §1357(a).  They may arrest an alien for being "in the United States in violation of any [immigration] law or regulation," for example, but only where the alien "is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained."  §1357(a)(2).
     Section 6 attempts to provide state officers even greater authority to arrest aliens on the basis of possible removability than Congress has given to trained federal immigration officers.  Under state law, officers who believe an alien is removable by reason of some "public offense" would have the power to conduct an arrest on that basis regardless of whether a federal warrant has issued or the alien is likely to escape.  This state authority could be exercised without any input from the Federal Government about whether an arrest is warranted in a particular case.  This would allow the State to achieve its own immigration policy.  The result could be unnecessary harassment of some aliens (for instance, a veteran, college student, or someone assisting with a criminal investigation) whom federal officials determine should not be removed.
     This is not the system Congress created.  Federal law specifies limited circumstances in which state officers may perform the functions of an immigration officer.  A principal example is when the Attorney General has granted that authority to specific officers in a formal agreement with a state or local government.  See §1357(g)(1); see also §1103(a)(10) (authority may be extended in the event of an "imminent mass influx of aliens off the coast of the United States"); §1252c (authority to arrest in specific circumstance after consultation with the Federal Government); §1324(c) (authority to arrest for bringing in and harboring certain aliens).  Officers covered by these agreements are subject to the Attorney General's direction and supervision.  §1357(g)(3).  There are significant complexities involved in enforcing federal immigration law, including the determination whether a person is removable.  See Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2010) (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4-7).  As a result, the agreements reached with the Attorney General must contain written certification that officers have received adequate training to carry out the duties of an immigration officer.  See §1357(g)(2); cf. 8 CFR §§287.5(c) (arrest power contingent on training), 287.1(g) (defining the training).
     By authorizing state officers to decide whether an alien should be detained for being removable, §6 violates the principle that the removal process is entrusted to the discretion of the Federal Government.  See, e.g., Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm., 525 U. S. 471, 483-484 (1999); see also Brief for Former INS Commissioners 8-13.  A decision on removability requires a determination whether it is appropriate to allow a foreign national to continue living in the United States.  Decisions of this nature touch on foreign relations and must be made with one voice.  See Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 543 U. S. 335, 348 (2005) ("Removal decisions, including the selection of a removed alien's destination, may implicate [the Nation's] relations with foreign powers and require consideration of changing political and economic circumstances" (internal quotation marks omitted)); see also Galvan v. Press, 347 U. S. 522, 531 (1954) ("Policies pertaining to the entry of aliens and their right to remain here are . . . entrusted exclusively to Congress . . ."); Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 42 (1915) ("The authority to control immigration--to admit or exclude aliens--is vested solely in the Federal Government").
     In defense of §6, Arizona notes a federal statute permitting state officers to "cooperate with the Attorney General in the identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens not lawfully present in the United States."  8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10)(B).  There may be some ambiguity as to what constitutes cooperation under the federal law; but no coherent understanding of the term would incorporate the unilateral decision of state officers to arrest an alien for being removable absent any request, approval, or other instruction from the Federal Government.  The Department of Homeland Security gives examples of what would constitute cooperation under federal law.  These include situations where States participate in a joint task force with federal officers, provide operational support in executing a warrant, or allow federal immigration officials to gain access to detainees held in state facilities.  See Dept. of Homeland Security, Guidance on State and Local Governments' Assistance in Immigration Enforcement and Related Matters 13-14 (2011), online at http:// www.dhs.gov/files/resources/immigration.shtm (all Internet materials as visited June 21, 2012, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).  State officials can also assist the Federal Government by responding to requests for information about when an alien will be released from their custody.  See §1357(d).  But the unilateral state action to detain authorized by §6 goes far beyond these measures, defeating any need for real cooperation.
     Congress has put in place a system in which state officers may not make warrantless arrests of aliens based on possible removability except in specific, limited circumstances.  By nonetheless authorizing state and local officers to engage in these enforcement activities as a general matter, §6 creates an obstacle to the full purposes and objectives of Congress.  See Hines, 312 U. S., at 67.  Section 6 is preempted by federal law.
D
Section 2(B)
     Section 2(B) of S. B. 1070 requires state officers to make a "reasonable attempt . . . to determine the immigration status" of any person they stop, detain, or arrest on some other legitimate basis if "reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien and is unlawfully present in the United States."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B) (West 2012).  The law also provides that "[a]ny person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status determined before the person is released."  Ibid.  The accepted way to perform these status checks is to contact ICE, which maintains a database of immigration records.
     Three limits are built into the state provision.  First, a detainee is presumed not to be an alien unlawfully present in the United States if he or she provides a valid Arizona driver's license or similar identification.  Second, officers "may not consider race, color or national origin . . . except to the extent permitted by the United States [and] Arizona Constitution[s]."  Ibid.  Third, the provisions must be "implemented in a manner consistent with federal law regulating immigration, protecting the civil rights of all persons and respecting the privileges and immunities of United States citizens."  §11-1051(L) (West 2012).
     The United States and its amici contend that, even with these limits, the State's verification requirements pose an obstacle to the framework Congress put in place.  The first concern is the mandatory nature of the status checks.  The second is the possibility of prolonged detention while the checks are being performed.
1
     Consultation between federal and state officials is an important feature of the immigration system.  Congress has made clear that no formal agreement or special training needs to be in place for state officers to "communicate with the [Federal Government] regarding the immigration status of any individual, including reporting knowledge that a particular alien is not lawfully present in the United States."  8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10)(A).  And Congress has obligated ICE to respond to any request made by state officials for verification of a person's citizenship or immigration status.  See §1373(c); see also §1226(d)(1)(A) (requiring a system for determining whether individuals arrested for aggravated felonies are aliens).  ICE's Law Enforcement Support Center operates "24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year" and provides, among other things, "immigration status, identity information and real-time assistance to local, state and federal law enforcement agencies."  ICE, Fact Sheet: Law Enforcement Support Center (May 29, 2012), online at http:// www.ice.gov/news/library/factsheets/lesc.htm.  LESC responded to more than one million requests for information in 2009 alone.  App. 93.
     The United States argues that making status verification mandatory interferes with the federal immigration scheme.  It is true that §2(B) does not allow state officers to consider federal enforcement priorities in deciding whether to contact ICE about someone they have detained.  See Brief for United States 47-50.  In other words, the officers must make an inquiry even in cases where it seems unlikely that the Attorney General would have the alien removed.  This might be the case, for example, when an alien is an elderly veteran with significant and longstanding ties to the community.  See 2011 ICE Memorandum 4-5 (mentioning these factors as relevant).
     Congress has done nothing to suggest it is inappropriate to communicate with ICE in these situations, however.  Indeed, it has encouraged the sharing of information about possible immigration violations.  See 8 U. S. C. §1357(g) (10)(A).  A federal statute regulating the public benefits provided to qualified aliens in fact instructs that "no State or local government entity may be prohibited, or in any way restricted, from sending to or receiving from [ICE] information regarding the immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of an alien in the United States."  §1644.  The federal scheme thus leaves room for a policy requiring state officials to contact ICE as a routine matter.  Cf. Whiting, 563 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 23-24) (rejecting argument that federal law preempted Arizona's requirement that employers determine whether employees were eligible to work through the federal E-Verify system where the Federal Government had encouraged its use).
2
     Some who support the challenge to §2(B) argue that, in practice, state officers will be required to delay the release of some detainees for no reason other than to verify their immigration status.  See, e.g., Brief for Former Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard et al. as Amici Curiae 37, n. 49.  Detaining individuals solely to verify their immigration status would raise constitutional concerns.  See, e.g., Arizona v. Johnson, 555 U. S. 323, 333 (2009); Illinois v. Caballes, 543 U. S. 405, 407 (2005) ("A seizure that is justified solely by the interest in issuing a warning ticket to the driver can become unlawful if it is prolonged beyond the time reasonably required to complete that mission").  And it would disrupt the federal framework to put state officers in the position of holding aliens in custody for possible unlawful presence without federal direction and supervision.  Cf. Part IV-C, supra (concluding that Arizona may not authorize warrantless arrests on the basis of removability).  The program put in place by Congress does not allow state or local officers to adopt this enforcement mechanism.
     But §2(B) could be read to avoid these concerns.  To take one example, a person might be stopped for jaywalking in Tucson and be unable to produce identification.  The first sentence of §2(B) instructs officers to make a "reasonable" attempt to verify his immigration status with ICE if there is reasonable suspicion that his presence in the United States is unlawful.  The state courts may conclude that, unless the person continues to be suspected of some crime for which he may be detained by state officers, it would not be reasonable to prolong the stop for the immigration inquiry.  See Reply Brief for Petitioners 12, n. 4 ("[Section 2(B)] does not require the verification be completed during the stop or detention if that is not reasonable or practicable"); cf. Muehler v. Mena, 544 U. S. 93, 101 (2005) (finding no Fourth Amendment violation where questioning about immigration status did not prolong a stop).
     To take another example, a person might be held pending release on a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol.  As this goes beyond a mere stop, the arrestee (unlike the jaywalker) would appear to be subject to the categorical requirement in the second sentence of §2(B) that "[a]ny person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status determined before [he] is released."  State courts may read this as an instruction to initiate a status check every time someone is arrested, or in some subset of those cases, rather than as a command to hold the person until the check is complete no matter the circumstances.  Even if the law is read as an instruction to complete a check while the person is in custody, moreover, it is not clear at this stage and on this record that the verification process would result in prolonged detention.       However the law is interpreted, if §2(B) only requires state officers to conduct a status check during the course of an authorized, lawful detention or after a detainee has been released, the provision likely would survive preemption--at least absent some showing that it has other consequences that are adverse to federal law and its objectives.  There is no need in this case to address whether reasonable suspicion of illegal entry or another immigration crime would be a legitimate basis for prolonging a detention, or whether this too would be preempted by federal law.  See, e.g., United States v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581, 589 (1948) (authority of state officers to make arrests for federal crimes is, absent federal statutory instruction, a matter of state law); Gonzales v. Peoria, 722 F. 2d 468, 475-476 (CA9 1983) (concluding that Arizona officers have authority to enforce the criminal provisions of federal immigration law), overruled on other grounds in Hodgers-Durgin v. de la Vina, 199 F. 3d 1037 (CA9 1999).
     The nature and timing of this case counsel caution in evaluating the validity of §2(B).  The Federal Government has brought suit against a sovereign State to challenge the provision even before the law has gone into effect.  There is a basic uncertainty about what the law means and how it will be enforced.  At this stage, without the benefit of a definitive interpretation from the state courts, it would be inappropriate to assume §2(B) will be construed in a way that creates a conflict with federal law.  Cf. Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 277 (1915) ("So far as statutes fairly may be construed in such a way as to avoid doubtful constitutional questions they should be so construed; and it is to be presumed that state laws will be construed in that way by the state courts" (citation omitted)).  As a result, the United States cannot prevail in its current challenge.  See Huron Portland Cement Co. v. Detroit, 362 U. S. 440, 446 (1960) ("To hold otherwise would be to ignore the teaching of this Court's decisions which enjoin seeking out conflicts between state and federal regulation where none clearly exists").  This opinion does not foreclose other preemption and constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect.
V
     Immigration policy shapes the destiny of the Nation.  On May 24, 2012, at one of this Nation's most distinguished museums of history, a dozen immigrants stood before the tattered flag that inspired Francis Scott Key to write the National Anthem.  There they took the oath to become American citizens.  The Smithsonian, News Release, Smithsonian Citizenship Ceremony Welcomes a Dozen New Americans (May 24, 2012), online at http://newsdesk.si.edu/releases.  These naturalization ceremonies bring together men and women of different origins who now share a common destiny.  They swear a common oath to renounce fidelity to foreign princes, to defend the Constitution, and to bear arms on behalf of the country when required by law.  8 CFR §337.1(a) (2012).  The history of the United States is in part made of the stories, talents, and lasting contributions of those who crossed oceans and deserts to come here.
     The National Government has significant power to regulate immigration.  With power comes responsibility, and the sound exercise of national power over immigration depends on the Nation's meeting its responsibility to base its laws on a political will informed by searching, thoughtful, rational civic discourse.  Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the problems caused by illegal immigration while that process continues, but the State may not pursue policies that undermine federal law.
*  *  *
     The United States has established that §§3, 5(C), and 6 of S. B. 1070 are preempted.  It was improper, however, to enjoin §2(B) before the state courts had an opportunity to construe it and without some showing that enforcement of the provision in fact conflicts with federal immigration law and its objectives.
     The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is affirmed in part and reversed in part.  The case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

Opinion of Scalia, J.
 567 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 11-182
ARIZONA, et al., PETITIONERS v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 25, 2012]

     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
     The United States is an indivisible "Union of sovereign States."  Hinderlider v. La Plata River & Cherry Creek Ditch Co., 304 U. S. 92, 104 (1938).  Today's opinion, approving virtually all of the Ninth Circuit's injunction against enforcement of the four challenged provisions of Arizona's law, deprives States of what most would consider the defining characteristic of sovereignty: the power to exclude from the sovereign's territory people who have no right to be there.  Neither the Constitution itself nor even any law passed by Congress supports this result.  I dissent.
I
     As a sovereign, Arizona has the inherent power to exclude persons from its territory, subject only to those limitations expressed in the Constitution or constitutionally imposed by Congress.  That power to exclude has long been recognized as inherent in sovereignty.  Emer de Vattel's seminal 1758 treatise on the Law of Nations stated:
"The sovereign may forbid the entrance of his territory either to foreigners in general, or in particular cases, or to certain persons, or for certain particular purposes, according as he may think it advantageous to the state.  There is nothing in all this, that does not flow from the rights of domain and sovereignty: every one is obliged to pay respect to the prohibition; and whoever dares violate it, incurs the penalty decreed to render it effectual."  The Law of Nations, bk. II, ch. VII, §94, p. 309 (B. Kapossy & R. Whatmore eds. 2008).
See also I R. Phillimore, Commentaries upon International Law, pt. III, ch. X, p. 233 (1854) ("It is a received maxim of International Law that, the Government of a State may prohibit the entrance of strangers into the country").1
     There is no doubt that "before the adoption of the constitution of the United States" each State had the authority to "prevent [itself] from being burdened by an influx of persons."  Mayor of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 132-133 (1837).  And the Constitution did not strip the States of that authority.  To the contrary, two of the Constitution's provisions were designed to enable the States to prevent "the intrusion of obnoxious aliens through other States."  Letter from James Madison to Edmund Randolph (Aug. 27, 1782), in 1 The Writings of James Madison 226 (1900); accord, The Federalist No. 42, pp. 269-271 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (J. Madison).  The Articles of Confederation had provided that "the free inhabitants of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds and fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States."  Articles of Confederation, Art. IV.  This meant that an unwelcome alien could obtain all the rights of a citizen of one State simply by first becoming an inhabitant of another.  To remedy this, the Constitution's Privileges and Immunities Clause provided that "[t]he Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States."  Art. IV, §2, cl. 1 (emphasis added).  But if one State had particularly lax citizenship standards, it might still serve as a gateway for the entry of "obnoxious aliens" into other States.  This problem was solved "by authorizing the general government to establish a uniform rule of naturalization throughout the United States."  The Federalist No. 42, supra, at 271; see Art. I, §8, cl. 4.  In other words, the naturalization power was given to Congress not to abrogate States' power to exclude those they did not want, but to vindicate it.
     Two other provisions of the Constitution are an acknowledgment of the States' sovereign interest in protecting their borders.  Article I provides that "[n]o State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws."  Art. I, §10, cl. 2 (emphasis added).  This assumed what everyone assumed: that the States could exclude from their territory dangerous or unwholesome goods.  A later portion of the same section provides that "[n]o State shall, without the Consent of Congress, . . . engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay."  Art. I, §10, cl. 3 (emphasis added).  This limits the States' sovereignty (in a way not relevant here) but leaves intact their inherent power to protect their territory.
     Notwithstanding "[t]he myth of an era of unrestricted immigration" in the first 100 years of the Republic, the States enacted numerous laws restricting the immigration of certain classes of aliens, including convicted criminals, indigents, persons with contagious diseases, and (in Southern States) freed blacks.  Neuman, The Lost Century of American Immigration (1776-1875), 93 Colum. L. Rev. 1833, 1835, 1841-1880 (1993).  State laws not only provided for the removal of unwanted immigrants but also imposed penalties on unlawfully present aliens and those who aided their immigration.2 Id., at 1883.
     In fact, the controversy surrounding the Alien and Sedition Acts involved a debate over whether, under the Constitution, the States had exclusive authority to enact such immigration laws.  Criticism of the Sedition Act has become a prominent feature of our First Amendment jurisprudence, see, e.g., New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 273-276 (1964), but one of the Alien Acts3 also aroused controversy at the time:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That it shall be lawful for the President of the United States at any time during the continuance of this act, to order all such aliens as he shall judge dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States, or shall have reasonable grounds to suspect are concerned in any treasonable or secret machinations against the government thereof, to depart out of the territory of the United States . . . ."  An Act concerning Aliens, 1 Stat. 570, 570-571.
The Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, written in denunciation of these Acts, insisted that the power to exclude unwanted aliens rested solely in the States.  Jefferson's Kentucky Resolutions insisted "that alien friends are under the jurisdiction and protection of the laws of the state wherein they are [and] that no power over them has been delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the individual states, distinct from their power over citizens."  Kentucky Resolutions of 1798, reprinted in J. Powell, Languages of Power: A Sourcebook of Early American Constitutional History 131 (1991).  Madison's Virginia Resolutions likewise contended that the Alien Act purported to give the President "a power nowhere delegated to the federal government."  Virginia Resolutions of 1798, reprinted in Powell, supra, at 134 (emphasis omitted).  Notably, moreover, the Federalist proponents of the Act defended it primarily on the ground that "[t]he removal of aliens is the usual preliminary of hostility" and could therefore be justified in exercise of the Federal Government's war powers.  Massachussets Resolutions in Reply to Virginia, reprinted in Powell, supra, at 136.
     In Mayor of New York v. Miln, this Court considered a New York statute that required the commander of any ship arriving in New York from abroad to disclose "the name, place of birth, and last legal settlement, age and occupation . . . of all passengers . . . with the intention of proceeding to the said city."  11 Pet., at 130-131.  After discussing the sovereign authority to regulate the entrance of foreigners described by De Vattel, the Court said:
     "The power . . . of New York to pass this law having undeniably existed at the formation of the constitution, the simply inquiry is, whether by that instrument it was taken from the states, and granted to congress; for if it were not, it yet remains with them."  Id., at 132.
And the Court held that it remains.  Id., at 139.
II
     One would conclude from the foregoing that after the adoption of the Constitution there was some doubt about the power of the Federal Government to control immigration, but no doubt about the power of the States to do so.  Since the founding era (though not immediately), doubt about the Federal Government's power has disappeared.  Indeed, primary responsibility for immigration policy has shifted from the States to the Federal Government.  Congress exercised its power "[t]o establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," Art. I, §8, cl. 4, very early on, see An Act to establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, 1 Stat. 103.  But with the fleeting exception of the Alien Act, Congress did not enact any legislation regulating immigration for the better part of a century.  In 1862, Congress passed "An Act to prohibit the 'Coolie Trade' by American Citizens in American Vessels," which prohibited "procuring [Chinese nationals] . . . to be disposed of, or sold, or transferred, for any term of years or for any time whatever, as servants or apprentices, or to be held to service or labor."  12 Stat. 340.  Then, in 1875, Congress amended that act to bar admission to Chinese, Japanese, and other Asian immigrants who had "entered into a contract or agreement for a term of service within the United States, for lewd and immoral purposes."  An act supplementary to the acts in relation to immigration, ch. 141, 18 Stat. 477.  And in 1882, Congress enacted the first general immigration statute.  See An act to regulate Immigration, 22 Stat. 214.  Of course, it hardly bears mention that Federal immigration law is now extensive.
     I accept that as a valid exercise of federal power--not because of the Naturalization Clause (it has no necessary connection to citizenship) but because it is an inherent attribute of sovereignty no less for the United States than for the States.  As this Court has said, it is an " 'accepted maxim of international law, that every sovereign nation has the power, as inherent in sovereignty, and essential to self-preservation, to forbid the entrance of foreigners within its dominions.' "  Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 705 (1893) (quoting Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, 659 (1892)).  That is why there was no need to set forth control of immigration as one of the enumerated powers of Congress, although an acknowledgment of that power (as well as of the States' similar power, subject to federal abridgment) was contained in Art. I, §9, which provided that "[t]he Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight . . . ."
     In light of the predominance of federal immigration restrictions in modern times, it is easy to lose sight of the States' traditional role in regulating immigration--and to overlook their sovereign prerogative to do so.  I accept as a given that State regulation is excluded by the Constitution when (1) it has been prohibited by a valid federal law, or (2) it conflicts with federal regulation--when, for example, it admits those whom federal regulation would exclude, or excludes those whom federal regulation would admit.
     Possibility (1) need not be considered here: there is no federal law prohibiting the States' sovereign power to exclude (assuming federal authority to enact such a law).  The mere existence of federal action in the immigration area--and the so-called field preemption arising from that action, upon which the Court's opinion so heavily relies, ante, at 9-11--cannot be regarded as such a prohibition.  We are not talking here about a federal law prohibiting the States from regulating bubble-gum advertising, or even the construction of nuclear plants.  We are talking about a federal law going to the core of state sovereignty: the power to exclude.  Like elimination of the States' other inherent sovereign power, immunity from suit, elimination of the States' sovereign power to exclude requires that "Congress . . . unequivocally expres[s] its intent to abrogate," Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 55 (1996) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).  Implicit "field preemption" will not do.
     Nor can federal power over illegal immigration be deemed exclusive because of what the Court's opinion solicitously calls "foreign countries[ '] concern[s] about the status, safety, and security of their nationals in the United States," ante, at 3.  The Constitution gives all those on our shores the protections of the Bill of Rights--but just as those rights are not expanded for foreign nationals because of their countries' views (some countries, for example, have recently discovered the death penalty to be barbaric), neither are the fundamental sovereign powers of the States abridged to accommodate foreign countries' views.  Even in its international relations, the Federal Government must live with the inconvenient fact that it is a Union of independent States, who have their own sovereign powers.  This is not the first time it has found that a nuisance and a bother in the conduct of foreign policy.  Four years ago, for example, the Government importuned us to interfere with thoroughly constitutional state judicial procedures in the criminal trial of foreign nationals because the international community, and even an opinion of the International Court of Justice, disapproved them.  See Medellín v. Texas, 552 U. S. 491 (2008).  We rejected that request, as we should reject the Executive's invocation of foreign-affairs considerations here.  Though it may upset foreign powers--and even when the Federal Government desperately wants to avoid upsetting foreign powers--the States have the right to protect their borders against foreign nationals, just as they have the right to execute foreign nationals for murder.
     What this case comes down to, then, is whether the Arizona law conflicts with federal immigration law--whether it excludes those whom federal law would admit, or admits those whom federal law would exclude.  It does not purport to do so.  It applies only to aliens who neither possess a privilege to be present under federal law nor have been removed pursuant to the Federal Government's inherent authority.  I proceed to consider the challenged provisions in detail.
§2(B)
"For any lawful stop, detention or arrest made by a law enforcement official . . . in the enforcement of any other law or ordinance of a county, city or town or this state where reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien and is unlawfully present in the United States, a reasonable attempt shall be made, when practicable, to determine the immigration status of the person, except if the determination may hinder or obstruct an investigation.  Any person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status determined before the person is released. . . ." S. B. 1070, §2(B), as amended, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B) (West 2012).
     The Government has conceded that "even before Section 2 was enacted, state and local officers had state-law authority to inquire of DHS [the Department of Homeland Security] about a suspect's unlawful status and otherwise cooperate with federal immigration officers."  Brief for United States 47 (citing App. 62, 82); see also Brief for United States 48-49.  That concession, in my view, obviates the need for further inquiry.  The Government's conflict-pre-emption claim calls on us "to determine whether, under the circumstances of this particular case, [the State's] law stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."  Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941) (emphasis added).  It is impossible to make such a finding without a factual record concerning the manner in which Arizona is implementing these provisions--something the Government's pre-enforcement challenge has pretermitted.  "The fact that [a law] might operate unconstitutionally under some conceivable set of circumstances is insufficient to render it wholly invalid, since we have not recognized an 'overbreadth' doctrine outside the limited context of the First Amendment."  United States v. Sal- erno, 481 U. S. 739, 745 (1987).  And on its face, §2(B) merely tells state officials that they are authorized to do something that they were, by the Government's concession, already authorized to do.
     The Court therefore properly rejects the Government's challenge, recognizing that, "[a]t this stage, without the benefit of a definitive interpretation from the state courts, it would be inappropriate to assume §2B will be construed in a way that creates a conflict with federal law."  Ante, at 23.  Before reaching that conclusion, however, the Court goes to great length to assuage fears that "state officers will be required to delay the release of some detainees for no reason other than to verify their immigration status."  Ante, at 22.  Of course, any investigatory detention, including one under §2(B), may become an "unreasonable . . . seizur[e]," U. S. Const., Amdt. IV, if it lasts too long.  See Illinois v. Caballes, 543 U. S. 405, 407 (2005).  But that has nothing to do with this case, in which the Government claims that §2(B) is pre-empted by federal immigration law, not that anyone's Fourth Amendment rights have been violated.  And I know of no reason why a protracted detention that does not violate the Fourth Amendment would contradict or conflict with any federal immigration law.
§6
"A peace officer, without a warrant, may arrest a person if the officer has probable cause to believe . . . [t]he person to be arrested has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United States."  S. B. 1070, §6(A)(5), Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-3883(A)(5) (West Supp. 2011).
     This provision of S. B. 1070 expands the statutory list of offenses for which an Arizona police officer may make an arrest without a warrant.  See §13-3883.  If an officer has probable cause to believe that an individual is "removable" by reason of a public offense, then a warrant is not required to make an arrest.  The Government's primary contention is that §6 is pre-empted by federal immigration law because it allows state officials to make arrests "without regard to federal priorities."  Brief for United States 53.  The Court's opinion focuses on limits that Congress has placed on federal officials' authority to arrest removable aliens and the possibility that state officials will make arrests "to achieve [Arizona's] own immigration policy" and "without any input from the Federal Government."  Ante, at 17.
     Of course on this pre-enforcement record there is no reason to assume that Arizona officials will ignore federal immigration policy (unless it be the questionable policy of not wanting to identify illegal aliens who have committed offenses that make them removable).  As Arizona points out, federal law expressly provides that state officers may "cooperate with the Attorney General in the identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens not lawfully present in the United States," 8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10)(B); and "cooperation" requires neither identical efforts nor prior federal approval.  It is consistent with the Arizona statute, and with the "cooperat[ive]" system that Congress has created, for state officials to arrest a removable alien, contact federal immigration authorities, and follow their lead on what to do next.  And it is an assault on logic to say that identifying a removable alien and holding him for federal determination of whether he should be removed "violates the principle that the removal process is entrusted to the discretion of the Federal Government," ante, at 18.  The State's detention does not represent commencement of the removal process unless the Federal Government makes it so.
     But that is not the most important point.  The most important point is that, as we have discussed, Arizona is entitled to have "its own immigration policy"--including a more rigorous enforcement policy--so long as that does not conflict with federal law.  The Court says, as though the point is utterly dispositive, that "it is not a crime for a removable alien to remain present in the United States," ante, at 15.  It is not a federal crime, to be sure.  But there is no reason Arizona cannot make it a state crime for a removable alien (or any illegal alien, for that matter) to remain present in Arizona.
     The Court quotes 8 U. S. C. §1226(a), which provides that, "[o]n a warrant issued by the Attorney General, an alien may be arrested and detained pending a decision on whether the alien is to be removed from the United States."  Section 1357(a)(2) also provides that a federal immigration official "shall have power without warrant . . . to arrest any alien in the United States, if he has reason to believe that the alien so arrested is in the United States in violation of any [federal immigration] law or regulation and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest."  But statutory limitations upon the actions of federal officers in enforcing the United States' power to protect its borders do not on their face apply to the actions of state officers in enforcing the State's power to protect its borders.  There is no more reason to read these provisions as implying that state officials are subject to similar limitations than there is to read them as implying that only federal officials may arrest removable aliens.  And in any event neither implication would constitute the sort of clear elimination of the States' sovereign power that our cases demand.
     The Court raises concerns about "unnecessary harassment of some aliens . . . whom federal officials determine should not be removed."  Ante, at 17.  But we have no license to assume, without any support in the record, that Arizona officials would use their arrest authority under §6 to harass anyone.  And it makes no difference that federal officials might "determine [that some unlawfully present aliens] should not be removed," ibid.  They may well determine not to remove from the United States aliens who have no right to be here; but unless and until these aliens have been given the right to remain, Arizona is entitled to arrest them and at least bring them to federal officials' attention, which is all that §6 necessarily entails.  (In my view, the State can go further than this, and punish them for their unlawful entry and presence in Arizona.)
     The Government complains that state officials might not heed "federal priorities."  Indeed they might not, particularly if those priorities include willful blindness or deliberate inattention to the presence of removable aliens in Arizona.  The State's whole complaint--the reason this law was passed and this case has arisen--is that the citizens of Arizona believe federal priorities are too lax.  The State has the sovereign power to protect its borders more rigorously if it wishes, absent any valid federal prohibition.  The Executive's policy choice of lax federal enforcement does not constitute such a prohibition.
§3
"In addition to any violation of federal law, a person is guilty of willful failure to complete or carry an alien registration document if the person is in violation of 8 [U. S. C.] §1304(e) or §1306(a)."  S. B. 1070, §3(A), as amended, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-1509(A).
     It is beyond question that a State may make violation of federal law a violation of state law as well.  We have held that to be so even when the interest protected is a distinctively federal interest, such as protection of the dignity of the national flag, see Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34 (1907), or protection of the Federal Government's ability to recruit soldiers, Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325 (1920).  "[T]he State is not inhibited from making the national purposes its own purposes to the extent of exerting its police power to prevent its own citizens from obstructing the accomplishment of such purposes."  Id., at 331 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Much more is that so when, as here, the State is protecting its own interest, the integrity of its borders.  And we have said that explicitly with regard to illegal immigration: "Despite the exclusive federal control of this Nation's borders, we cannot conclude that the States are without any power to deter the influx of persons entering the United States against federal law, and whose numbers might have a discernible impact on traditional state concerns."  Plyler v. Doe, 457 U. S. 202, 228, n. 23 (1982).
     The Court's opinion relies upon Hines v. Davidowitz, supra.  Ante, at 9-10.  But that case did not, as the Court believes, establish a "field preemption" that implicitly eliminates the States' sovereign power to exclude those whom federal law excludes.  It held that the States are not permitted to establish "additional or auxiliary" registration requirements for aliens.  312 U. S., at 66-67.  But §3 does not establish additional or auxiliary registration requirements.  It merely makes a violation of state law the very same failure to register and failure to carry evidence of registration that are violations of federal law.  Hines does not prevent the State from relying on the federal registration system as "an available aid in the enforcement of a number of statutes of the state applicable to aliens whose constitutional validity has not been questioned."  Id., at 75-76 (Stone, J., dissenting).  One such statute is Arizona's law forbidding illegal aliens to collect unemployment benefits, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-781(B) (West 2012).  To enforce that and other laws that validly turn on alien status, Arizona has, in Justice Stone's words, an interest in knowing "the number and whereabouts of aliens within the state" and in having "a means of their identification," 312 U. S., at 75.  And it can punish the aliens' failure to comply with the provisions of federal law that make that knowledge and identification possible.
     In some areas of uniquely federal concern--e.g., fraud in a federal administrative process (Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341 (2001)) or perjury in violation of a federally required oath (In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372 (1890))--this Court has held that a State has no legitimate interest in enforcing a federal scheme.  But the federal alien registration system is certainly not of uniquely federal interest.  States, private entities, and individuals rely on the federal registration system (including the E-Verify program) on a regular basis.  Arizona's legitimate interest in protecting (among other things) its unemployment-benefits system is an entirely adequate basis for making the violation of federal registration and carry requirements a violation of state law as well.
     The Court points out, however, ante, at 11, that in some respects the state law exceeds the punishments prescribed by federal law: It rules out probation and pardon, which are available under federal law.  The answer is that it makes no difference.  Illegal immigrants who violate §3 violate Arizona law.  It is one thing to say that the Supremacy Clause prevents Arizona law from excluding those whom federal law admits.  It is quite something else to say that a violation of Arizona law cannot be punished more severely than a violation of federal law.  Especially where (as here) the State is defending its own sovereign interests, there is no precedent for such a limitation.  The sale of illegal drugs, for example, ordinarily violates state law as well as federal law, and no one thinks that the state penalties cannot exceed the federal.  As I have discussed, moreover, "field preemption" cannot establish a prohibition of additional state penalties in the area of immigration.
     Finally, the Government also suggests that §3 poses an obstacle to the administration of federal immigration law, see Brief for United States 31-33, but "there is no conflict in terms, and no possibility of such conflict, [if] the state statute makes federal law its own," California v. Zook, 336 U. S. 725, 735 (1949).
     It holds no fear for me, as it does for the Court, that "[w]ere §3 to come into force, the State would have the power to bring criminal charges against individuals for violating a federal law even in circumstances where federal officials in charge of the comprehensive scheme determine that prosecution would frustrate federal policies."  Ante, at 11.  That seems to me entirely appropriate when the State uses the federal law (as it must) as the criterion for the exercise of its own power, and the implementation of its own policies of excluding those who do not belong there.  What I do fear--and what Arizona and the States that support it fear--is that "federal policies" of nonenforcement will leave the States helpless before those evil effects of illegal immigration that the Court's opinion dutifully recites in its prologue (ante, at 6) but leaves unremedied in its disposition.
§5(C)
"It is unlawful for a person who is unlawfully present in the United States and who is an unauthorized alien to knowingly apply for work, solicit work in a public place or perform work as an employee or independent contractor in this state."  S. B. 1070, §5(C), as amended, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-2928(C).
     Here, the Court rightly starts with De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351 (1976), which involved a California law providing that " '[n]o employer shall knowingly employ an alien who is not entitled to lawful residence in the United States if such employment would have an adverse effect on lawful resident workers.' "  Id., at 352 (quoting California Labor Code Ann. §2805(a)).  This Court concluded that the California law was not pre-empted, as Congress had neither occupied the field of "regulation of employment of illegal aliens" nor expressed "the clear and manifest purpose" of displacing such state regulation.  Id., at 356-357 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Thus, at the time De Canas was decided, §5(C) would have been indubitably lawful.
     The only relevant change is that Congress has since enacted its own restrictions on employers who hire illegal aliens, 8 U. S. C. §1324a, in legislation that also includes some civil (but no criminal) penalties on illegal aliens who accept unlawful employment.  The Court concludes from this (reasonably enough) "that Congress made a deliberate choice not to impose criminal penalties on aliens who seek, or engage in, unauthorized employment," ante, at 13.  But that is not the same as a deliberate choice to prohibit the States from imposing criminal penalties.  Congress's intent with regard to exclusion of state law need not be guessed at, but is found in the law's express pre-emption provision, which excludes "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens," §1324a(h)(2) (emphasis added).  Common sense, reflected in the canon expressio unius est exclusio alterius, suggests that the specification of pre-emption for laws punishing "those who employ" implies the lack of pre-emption for other laws, including laws punishing "those who seek or accept employment."
     The Court has no credible response to this.  It quotes our jurisprudence to the effect that an "express pre-emption provisio[n] does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles."  Ante, at 14 (quoting Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 869 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted)).  True enough--conflict preemption principles.  It then goes on say that since "Congress decided it would be inappropriate to impose criminal penalties on aliens who seek or engage in unauthorized employment," "[i]t follows that a state law to the contrary is an obstacle to the regulatory system Congress chose."  Ante, at 15.  For " '[w]here a comprehensive federal scheme intentionally leaves a portion of the regulated field without controls, then the pre-emptive inference can be drawn.' "  Ibid. (quoting Puerto Rico Dept. of Consumer Affairs v. ISLA Petroleum Corp., 485 U.S. 495, 503 (1988)).  All that is a classic description not of conflict pre-emption but of field pre-emption, which (concededly) does not occur beyond the terms of an express pre-emption provision.
     The Court concludes that §5(C) "would interfere with the careful balance struck by Congress," ante, at 15, (another field pre-emption notion, by the way) but that is easy to say and impossible to demonstrate.  The Court relies primarily on the fact that "[p]roposals to make unauthorized work a criminal offense were debated and discussed during the long process of drafting [the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA)]," "[b]ut Congress rejected them."  Ante, at 14.  There is no more reason to believe that this rejection was expressive of a desire that there be no sanctions on employees, than expressive of a desire that such sanctions be left to the States.  To tell the truth, it was most likely expressive of what inaction ordinarily expresses: nothing at all.  It is a "naïve assumption that the failure of a bill to make it out of committee, or to be adopted when reported to the floor, is the same as a congressional rejection of what the bill contained."  Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 389 (2000) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).
*  *  *
     The brief for the Government in this case asserted that "the Executive Branch's ability to exercise discretion and set priorities is particularly important because of the need to allocate scarce enforcement resources wisely."  Brief for United States 21.  Of course there is no reason why the Federal Executive's need to allocate its scarce enforcement resources should disable Arizona from devoting its resources to illegal immigration in Arizona that in its view the Federal Executive has given short shrift.  Despite Congress's prescription that "the immigration laws of the United States should be enforced vigorously and uniformly," IRCA §115, 100 Stat. 3384, Arizona asserts without contradiction and with supporting citations:
"[I]n the last decade federal enforcement efforts have focused primarily on areas in California and Texas, leaving Arizona's border to suffer from comparative neglect.  The result has been the funneling of an increasing tide of illegal border crossings into Arizona.  Indeed, over the past decade, over a third of the Nation's illegal border crossings occurred in Arizona."  Brief for Petitioners 2-3 (footnote omitted).
Must Arizona's ability to protect its borders yield to the reality that Congress has provided inadequate funding for federal enforcement--or, even worse, to the Executive's unwise targeting of that funding?
     But leave that aside.  It has become clear that federal enforcement priorities--in the sense of priorities based on the need to allocate "scarce enforcement resources"--is not the problem here.  After this case was argued and while it was under consideration, the Secretary of Homeland Security announced a program exempting from immigration enforcement some 1.4 million illegal immigrants under the age of 30.4  If an individual unlawfully present in the United States
"•     came to the United States under the age of sixteen;
"•     has continuously resided in the United States for at least five years . . . ,
"•     is currently in school, has graduated from high school, has obtained a general education development certificate, or is an honorably discharged veteran . . . ,
"•     has not been convicted of a [serious crime]; and
"•     is not above the age of thirty,"5
then U. S. immigration officials have been directed to "defe[r] action" against such individual "for a period of two years, subject to renewal."6  The husbanding of scarce enforcement resources can hardly be the justification for this, since the considerable administrative cost of conducting as many as 1.4 million background checks, and ruling on the biennial requests for dispensation that the nonenforcement program envisions, will necessarily be deducted from immigration enforcement.  The President said at a news conference that the new program is "the right thing to do" in light of Congress's failure to pass the Administration's proposed revision of the Immigration Act.7  Perhaps it is, though Arizona may not think so.  But to say, as the Court does, that Arizona contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of the Immigration Act that the President declines to enforce boggles the mind.
     The Court opinion's looming specter of inutterable horror--"[i]f §3 of the Arizona statute were valid, every State could give itself independent authority to prosecute federal registration violations," ante, at 10--seems to me not so horrible and even less looming.  But there has come to pass, and is with us today, the specter that Arizona and the States that support it predicted: A Federal Government that does not want to enforce the immigration laws as written, and leaves the States' borders unprotected against immigrants whom those laws would exclude.  So the issue is a stark one.  Are the sovereign States at the mercy of the Federal Executive's refusal to enforce the Nation's immigration laws?
     A good way of answering that question is to ask: Would the States conceivably have entered into the Union if the Constitution itself contained the Court's holding?  Today's judgment surely fails that test.  At the Constitutional Convention of 1787, the delegates contended with "the jealousy of the states with regard to their sovereignty."  1 Records of the Federal Convention 19 (M. Farrand ed. 1911) (statement of Edmund Randolph).  Through ratification of the fundamental charter that the Convention produced, the States ceded much of their sovereignty to the Federal Government.  But much of it remained jealously guarded--as reflected in the innumerable proposals that never left Independence Hall.  Now, imagine a provision--perhaps inserted right after Art. I, §8, cl. 4, the Naturalization Clause--which included among the enumerated powers of Congress "To establish Limitations upon Immigration that will be exclusive and that will be enforced only to the extent the President deems appropriate."  The delegates to the Grand Convention would have rushed to the exits.
     As is often the case, discussion of the dry legalities that are the proper object of our attention suppresses the very human realities that gave rise to the suit.  Arizona bears the brunt of the country's illegal immigration problem.  Its citizens feel themselves under siege by large numbers of illegal immigrants who invade their property, strain their social services, and even place their lives in jeopardy.  Federal officials have been unable to remedy the problem, and indeed have recently shown that they are unwilling to do so.  Thousands of Arizona's estimated 400,000 illegal immigrants--including not just children but men and women under 30--are now assured immunity from enforcement, and will be able to compete openly with Arizona citizens for employment.
     Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty--not in contradiction of federal law, but in complete compliance with it.  The laws under challenge here do not extend or revise federal immigration restrictions, but merely enforce those restrictions more effectively.  If securing its territory in this fashion is not within the power of Arizona, we should cease referring to it as a sovereign State.  I dissent.

Opinion of Thomas, J.
 567 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 11-182
ARIZONA, et al., PETITIONERS v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 25, 2012]

     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
     I agree with Justice Scalia that federal immigration law does not pre-empt any of the challenged provisions of S. B. 1070.  I reach that conclusion, however, for the simple reason that there is no conflict between the "ordinary meanin[g]" of the relevant federal laws and that of the four provisions of Arizona law at issue here.  Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 588 (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) ("Pre-emption analysis should not be a freewheeling judicial inquiry into whether a state statute is in tension with federal objectives, but an inquiry into whether the ordinary meanings of state and federal law conflict" (brackets; internal quotation marks omitted)).
     Section 2(B) of S. B. 1070 provides that, when Arizona law enforcement officers reasonably suspect that a person they have lawfully stopped, detained, or arrested is unlawfully present, "a reasonable attempt shall be made, when practicable, to determine the immigration status of the person" pursuant to the verification procedure established by Congress in 8 U. S. C. §1373(c).  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B) (West 2012).  Nothing in the text of that or any other federal statute prohibits Arizona from directing its officers to make immigration-related inquiries in these situations.  To the contrary, federal law expressly states that "no State or local government entity may be prohibited, or in any way restricted, from sending to or receiving from" federal officials "information regarding the immigration status" of an alien.  8 U. S. C. §1644.  And, federal law imposes an affirmative obligation on federal officials to respond to a State's immigration-related inquiries.  §1373(c).
     Section 6 of S. B. 1070 authorizes Arizona law enforcement officers to make warrantless arrests when there is probable cause to believe that an arrestee has committed a public offense that renders him removable under federal immigration law.  States, as sovereigns, have inherent authority to conduct arrests for violations of federal law, unless and until Congress removes that authority.  See United States v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581, 589 (1948) (holding that state law determines the validity of a warrantless arrest for a violation of federal law "in the absence of an applicable federal statute").  Here, no federal statute purports to withdraw that authority.  As Justice Scalia notes, ante, at 12 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part), federal law does limit the authority of federal officials to arrest removable aliens, but those statutes do not apply to state officers.  And, federal law expressly recognizes that state officers may "cooperate with the Attorney General" in the "apprehension" and "detention" of "aliens not lawfully present in the United States."  §1357(g)(10)(B).  Nothing in that statute indicates that such cooperation requires a prior "request, approval, or other instruction from the Federal Government."  Ante, at 18 (majority opinion).
     Section 3 of S. B. 1070 makes it a crime under Arizona law for an unlawfully present alien to willfully fail to complete or carry an alien registration document in violation of 8 U. S. C. §1304(e) and §1306(a).  Section 3 simply incorporates federal registration standards.  Unlike the Court, I would not hold that Congress pre-empted the field of enforcing those standards.  "[O]ur recent cases have frequently rejected field pre-emption in the absence of statutory language expressly requiring it."  Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, 520 U. S. 564, 617 (1997) (Thomas, J., dissenting); see, e.g., New York State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino, 413 U. S. 405, 415 (1973).  Here, nothing in the text of the relevant federal statutes indicates that Congress intended enforcement of its registration requirements to be exclusively the province of the Federal Government.  That Congress created a "full set of standards governing alien registration," ante, at 10 (majority opinion), merely indicates that it intended the scheme to be capable of working on its own, not that it wanted to preclude the States from enforcing the federal standards.  Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52 (1941), is not to the contrary.  As Justice Scalia explains, ante, at 14, Hines at most holds that federal law pre-empts the States from creating additional registration requirements.  But here, Arizona is merely seeking to enforce the very registration requirements that Congress created.
     Section 5(C) of S. B. 1070 prohibits unlawfully present aliens from knowingly applying for, soliciting, or performing work in Arizona.  Section 5(C) operates only on individuals whom Congress has already declared ineligible to work in the United States.  Nothing in the text of the federal immigration laws prohibits States from imposing their own criminal penalties on such individuals.  Federal law expressly pre-empts States from "imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2) (emphasis added).  But it leaves States free to impose criminal sanctions on the employees themselves.
     Despite the lack of any conflict between the ordinary meaning of the Arizona law and that of the federal laws at issue here, the Court holds that various provisions of the Arizona law are pre-empted because they "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."  Hines, supra, at 67.  I have explained that the "purposes and objectives" theory of implied pre-emption is inconsistent with the Constitution because it invites courts to engage in freewheeling speculation about congressional purpose that roams well beyond statutory text.  See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 604 (opinion concurring in judgment); see also Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, Inc., 562 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2011) (opinion concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2-3); Haywood v. Drown, 556 U. S. 729, 767 (2009) (dissenting opinion).  Under the Supremacy Clause, pre-emptive effect is to be given to congressionally enacted laws, not to judicially divined legislative purposes.  See Wyeth, supra, at 604 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment). Thus, even assuming the existence of some tension between Arizona's law and the supposed "purposes and objectives" of Congress, I would not hold that any of the provisions of the Arizona law at issue here are pre-empted on that basis.

Opinion of Alito, J.
 567 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 11-182
ARIZONA, et al., PETITIONERS v. UNITED STATES
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[June 25, 2012]

     Justice Alito, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
     This case concerns four provisions of Arizona's Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act, S. B. 1070.  Section 2(B) requires Arizona law enforcement officers to make a "reasonable attempt," "when practicable," to ascertain the immigration status of any person whom an officer lawfully stops, detains, or arrests "where reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien and is unlawfully present in the United States."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B) (West 2012).  Section 3 provides that an alien who willfully fails "to complete or carry an alien registration document" in violation of 8 U. S. C. §1304(e) or §1306(a) is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-1509(A) (West Supp. 2011).  Section 5(C) makes it a misdemeanor for an unauthorized alien who is unlawfully present in the United States "to knowingly apply for work, solicit work in a public place or perform work as an employee or independent contractor."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-2928(C).  And §6 authorizes Arizona law enforcement officers to arrest without a warrant any person whom the officer has probable cause to believe "has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United States."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13-3883(A)(5).
     I agree with the Court that §2(B) is not pre-empted.  That provision does not authorize or require Arizona law enforcement officers to do anything they are not already allowed to do under existing federal law.  The United States' argument that §2(B) is pre-empted, not by any federal statute or regulation, but simply by the Executive's current enforcement policy is an astounding assertion of federal executive power that the Court rightly rejects.  
     I also agree with the Court that §3 is pre-empted by virtue of our decision in Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52 (1941).  Our conclusion in that case that Congress had enacted an "all-embracing system" of alien registration and that States cannot "enforce additional or auxiliary regulations," id., at 66-67, 74, forecloses Arizona's attempt here to impose additional, state-law penalties for violations of the federal registration scheme.  
     While I agree with the Court on §2(B) and §3, I part ways on §5(C) and §6.  The Court's holding on §5(C) is inconsistent with De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351 (1976), which held that employment regulation, even of aliens unlawfully present in the country, is an area of traditional state concern.  Because state police powers are implicated here, our precedents require us to presume that federal law does not displace state law unless Congress' intent to do so is clear and manifest.  I do not believe Congress has spoken with the requisite clarity to justify invalidation of §5(C).  Nor do I believe that §6 is invalid.  Like §2(B), §6 adds virtually nothing to the authority that Arizona law enforcement officers already exercise.  And whatever little authority they have gained is consistent with federal law. 
Section 2(B)
A
     Although §2(B) of the Arizona law has occasioned much controversy, it adds nothing to the authority that Arizona law enforcement officers, like officers in all other States, already possess under federal law.  For that reason, I agree with the Court that §2(B) is not pre-empted.
     Section 2(B) quite clearly does not expand the authority of Arizona officers to make stops or arrests.  It is triggered only when a "lawful stop, detention or arrest [is] made . . . in the enforcement of any other [state or local] law or ordinance."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B) (emphasis added).  Section 2(B) thus comes into play only when an officer has reasonable suspicion or probable cause to believe that a person has committed a nonimmigration offense.  Arizona officers plainly possessed this authority before §2(B) took effect.
     Section 2(B) also does not expand the authority of Arizona officers to inquire about the immigration status of persons who are lawfully detained.  When a person is stopped or arrested and "reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien and is unlawfully present in the United States," §2(B) instructs Arizona officers to make a "reasonable attempt," "when practicable," to ascertain that person's immigration status.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(B).  Even before the Arizona Legislature enacted §2(B), federal law permitted state and local officers to make such inquiries.  In 8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10)(A), Congress has made clear that state and local governments need not enter into formal agreements with the Federal Government in order "to communicate with the [Federal Government] regarding the immigration status of any individual."  In addition, Congress has mandated that neither the Federal Government nor any state or local government may "prohibit, or in any way restrict, any government entity or official from sending to, or receiving from, [the Federal Government] information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual."  §1373(a); see also §1644 (providing that "no State or local government entity may be prohibited, or in any way restricted, from sending to or receiving from [the Federal Government] information regarding the immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of an alien in the United States").  And while these provisions preserve the authority of state and local officers to seek immigration-status information from the Federal Government, another federal statute, §1373(c), requires that the Federal Government respond to any such inquiries "by providing the requested verification or status information."  It comes as no surprise, therefore, that many States and localities permit their law enforcement officers to make the kinds of inquiries that §2(B) prescribes.  See App. 294-298 (reporting that officers in 59 surveyed state and local jurisdictions "generally" ask arrestees about their immigration status while 34 do not and that officers in 78 jurisdictions "generally" inform Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) when they believe an arrestee to be an undocumented alien while only 17 do not).  Congress has invited state and local governments to make immigration-related inquiries and has even obligated the Federal Government to respond.  Through §2(B), Arizona has taken Congress up on that invitation.
     The United States does not deny that officers may, at their own discretion, inquire about the immigration status of persons whom they lawfully detain.  Instead, the United States argues that §2(B) is pre-empted because it impedes federal-state cooperation by mandating that officers verify the immigration status of every detained person if there is reason to believe that the person is unlawfully present in the country.  The United States claims that §2(B)'s mandate runs contrary to federal law in that it "precludes officers from taking [the Federal Government's] priorities and discretion into account."  Brief for United States 50.  "[B]y interposing a mandatory state law between state and local officers and their federal counterparts," writes the United States, §2(B) "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the federal requirement of cooperation and the full effectuation of the enforcement judgment and discretion Congress has vested in the Executive Branch."  Ibid. (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
     The underlying premise of the United States' argument seems to be that state and local officers, when left to their own devices, generally take federal enforcement priorities into account.  But there is no reason to think that this premise is true.  And even if it were, it would not follow that §2(B)'s blanket mandate is at odds with federal law.  Nothing in the relevant federal statutes requires state and local officers to consider the Federal Government's priorities before requesting verification of a person's immigration status.  Neither 8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10) nor §1373(a) conditions the right of state and local officers to communicate with the Federal Government on their first taking account of its priorities.  Nor does §1373(c) condition the Federal Government's obligation to answer requests for information on the sensitivity of state and local officers to its enforcement discretion.  In fact, §1373(c) dictates that the Federal Government "shall respond" to any inquiry seeking verification of immigration status, and that command applies whether or not the requesting officer has bothered to consider federal priorities.  Because no federal statute requires such consideration, §2(B) does not conflict with federal law.
     In any event, it is hard to see how state and local officers could proceed in conformity with the Federal Government's enforcement priorities without making an inquiry into a suspected alien's immigration status.  For example, one of the Federal Government's highest priorities is the apprehension and removal of aliens who have failed to comply with a final order of removal.  See App. 108.  How can an officer identify those persons without first inquiring about their status?  At bottom, the discretion that ultimately matters is not whether to verify a person's immigration status but whether to act once the person's status is known.  For that reason, §2(B)'s verification requirement is not contrary to federal law because the Federal Government retains the discretion that matters most--that is, the discretion to enforce the law in particular cases.  If an Arizona officer contacts the Federal Government to verify a person's immigration status and federal records reveal that the person is in the country unlawfully, the Federal Government decides, presumably based on its enforcement priorities, whether to have the person released or transferred to federal custody.  Enforcement discretion thus lies with the Federal Government, not with Arizona.  Nothing in §2(B) suggests otherwise.
     The United States' attack on §2(B) is quite remarkable.  The United States suggests that a state law may be pre-empted, not because it conflicts with a federal statute or regulation, but because it is inconsistent with a federal agency's current enforcement priorities.  Those priorities, however, are not law.  They are nothing more than agency policy.  I am aware of no decision of this Court recognizing that mere policy can have pre-emptive force.  Cf. Barclays Bank PLC v. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal., 512 U. S. 298, 330 (1994) (holding that "Executive Branch communications that express federal policy but lack the force of law cannot render unconstitutional" an "otherwise valid, congressionally condoned" state law).  If §2(B) were pre-empted at the present time because it is out of sync with the Federal Government's current priorities, would it be unpre-empted at some time in the future if the agency's priorities changed?
     Like most law enforcement agencies, ICE does not set out inflexible rules for its officers to follow.  To the contrary, it provides a list of factors to guide its officers' enforcement discretion on a case-by-case basis.  See Memorandum from John Morton, Director, ICE, to All Field Office Directors et al., p. 4 (June 17, 2011) ("This list is not exhaustive and no one factor is determinative.  ICE officers, agents, and attorneys should always consider prosecutorial discretion on a case-by-case basis.  The decisions should be based on the totality of the circumstances, with the goal of conforming to ICE's enforcement priorities").  Among those factors is "the agency's civil immigration enforcement priorities," ibid., which change from administration to administration.  If accepted, the United States' pre-emption argument would give the Executive unprecedented power to invalidate state laws that do not meet with its approval, even if the state laws are otherwise consistent with federal statutes and duly promulgated regulations.  This argument, to say the least, is fundamentally at odds with our federal system.       
B
     It has been suggested that §2(B) will cause some persons who are lawfully stopped to be detained in violation of their constitutional rights while a prolonged investigation of their immigration status is undertaken.  But nothing on the face of the law suggests that it will be enforced in a way that violates the Fourth Amendment or any other provision of the Constitution.  The law instructs officers to make a "reasonable attempt" to investigate immigration status, and this language is best understood as incorporating the Fourth Amendment's standard of reasonableness.  Indeed, the Arizona Legislature has directed that §2(B) "shall be implemented in a manner consistent with federal laws . . . protecting the civil rights of all persons and respecting the privileges and immunities of United States citizens."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §11-1051(L).
     In the situations that seem most likely to occur, enforcement of §2(B) will present familiar Fourth Amendment questions.  To take a common situation, suppose that a car is stopped for speeding, a nonimmigration offense.  (Recall that §2(B) comes into play only where a stop or arrest is made for a nonimmigration offense.)  Suppose also that the officer who makes the stop subsequently acquires reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver entered the country illegally, which is a federal crime.  See 8 U. S. C. §1325(a).
     It is well established that state and local officers generally have authority to make stops and arrests for violations of federal criminal laws.  See, e.g., Miller v. United States, 357 U. S. 301, 305 (1958); United States v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581, 589 (1948).  I see no reason why this principle should not apply to immigration crimes as well.  Lower courts have so held.  See, e.g., Estrada v. Rhode Island, 594 F. 3d 56, 65 (CA1 2010) (upholding the lawfulness of a detention because the officer had an objectively reasonable belief that the arrestees "had committed immigration violations"); United States v. Vasquez-Alvarez, 176 F. 3d 1294, 1296 (CA10 1999) (noting that "state law-enforcement officers have the general authority to investigate and make arrests for violations of federal immigration laws"); Gonzales v. Peoria, 722 F. 2d 468, 475 (CA9 1983), overruled on other grounds, Hodgers-Durgin v. de la Vina, 199 F. 3d 1037 (1999) (en banc) (holding that "federal law does not preclude local enforcement of the criminal provisions" of federal immigration law).  And the United States, consistent with the position long taken by the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) in the Department of Justice, does not contend otherwise.  See Brief for United States 55, n. 33; see also Memorandum from OLC to the Attorney General (Apr. 3, 2002), App. 268-273; Assistance by State and Local Police in Apprehending Illegal Aliens, 20 Op. Off. Legal Counsel 26 (1996).
     More importantly, no federal statute casts doubt on this authority.  To be sure, there are a handful of statutes that purport to authorize state and local officers to make immigration-related arrests in certain situations.  See, e.g., 8 U. S. C. §1103(a)(10) (providing for the extension of "any" immigration enforcement authority to state and local officers in the event of an "actual or imminent mass influx of aliens arriving off the coast"); §1252c(a) (providing authority to arrest criminal aliens who had illegally reentered the country but only after consultation with the Federal Government); §1324(c) (providing authority to make arrests for transporting and harboring certain aliens).  But a grant of federal arrest authority in some cases does not manifest a clear congressional intent to displace the States' police powers in all other cases. Without more, such an inference is too weak to overcome our presumption against pre-emption where traditional state police powers are at stake.  Accordingly, in our hypothetical case, the Arizona officer may arrest the driver for violating §1325(a) if the officer has probable cause.  And if the officer has reasonable suspicion, the officer may detain the driver, to the extent permitted by the Fourth Amendment, while the question of illegal entry is investigated.
     We have held that a detention based on reasonable suspicion that the detainee committed a particular crime "can become unlawful if it is prolonged beyond the time reasonably required to complete that mission."  Illinois v. Caballes, 543 U. S. 405, 407 (2005).  But if during the course of a stop an officer acquires suspicion that a detainee committed a different crime, the detention may be extended for a reasonable time to verify or dispel that suspicion.  Cf. Muehler v. Mena, 544 U. S. 93, 101 (2005) (holding that "no additional Fourth Amendment justification" was required because any questioning concerning immigration status did not prolong the detention).  In our hypothetical case, therefore, if the officer, after initially stopping the car for speeding, has a reasonable suspicion that the driver entered the country illegally, the officer may investigate for evidence of illegal entry.  But the length and nature of this investigation must remain within the limits set out in our Fourth Amendment cases.  An investigative stop, if prolonged, can become an arrest and thus require probable cause.  See Caballes, supra, at 407.  Similarly, if a person is moved from the site of the stop, probable cause will likely be required.  See Hayes v. Florida, 470 U. S. 811, 816 (1985) (holding that the line between detention and arrest is crossed "when the police, without probable cause or a warrant, forcibly remove a person from his home or other place in which he is entitled to be and transport him to the police station, where he is detained, although briefly, for investigative purposes").
     If properly implemented, §2(B) should not lead to federal constitutional violations, but there is no denying that enforcement of §2(B) will multiply the occasions on which sensitive Fourth Amendment issues will crop up.  These civil-liberty concerns, I take it, are at the heart of most objections to §2(B).  Close and difficult questions will inevitably arise as to whether an officer had reasonable suspicion to believe that a person who is stopped for some other reason entered the country illegally, and there is a risk that citizens, lawful permanent residents, and others who are lawfully present in the country will be detained.  To mitigate this risk, Arizona could issue guidance to officers detailing the circumstances that typically give rise to reasonable suspicion of unlawful presence.  And in the spirit of the federal-state cooperation that the United States champions, the Federal Government could share its own guidelines.  Arizona could also provide officers with a nonexclusive list containing forms of identification sufficient under §2(B) to dispel any suspicion of unlawful presence.  If Arizona accepts licenses from most States as proof of legal status, the problem of roadside detentions will be greatly mitigated.1
Section 3
     I agree that §3 is pre-empted because, like the Court, I read the opinion in Hines to require that result.  Although there is some ambiguity in Hines, the Court largely spoke in the language of field pre-emption.  The Court explained that where Congress "has enacted a complete scheme of regulation and has therein provided a standard for the registration of aliens, states cannot, inconsistently with the purpose of Congress, conflict or interfere with, curtail or complement, the federal law, or enforce additional or auxiliary regulations."  312 U. S., at 66-67.  In finding the Pennsylvania alien-registration law pre-empted, the Court observed that Congress had "provided a standard for alien registration in a single integrated and all-embracing system" and that its intent was "to protect the personal liberties of law-abiding aliens through one uniform national registration system."  Id., at 74.  If we credit our holding in Hines that Congress has enacted "a single integrated and all-embracing system" of alien registration and that States cannot "complement" that system or "enforce additional or auxiliary regulations," id., at 66-67, 74, then Arizona's attempt to impose additional, state-law penalties for violations of federal registration requirements must be invalidated.
Section 5(C)
     While I agree that §3 is pre-empted, I disagree with the Court's decision to strike down §5(C).  I do so in large measure because the Court fails to give the same solicitude to our decision in De Canas, 424 U. S. 351, as it is willing to give our decision in Hines.  In De Canas, the Court upheld against a pre-emption challenge a state law imposing fines on employers that hired aliens who were unlawfully present in the United States.  The Court explained that the mere fact that "aliens are the subject of a state statute does not render it a regulation of immigration."  424 U. S., at 355.  The Court emphasized instead that "States possess broad authority under their police powers to regulate the employment relationship to protect workers within the State."  Id., at 356.  In light of that broad authority, the Court declared that "[o]nly a demonstration that complete ouster of state power . . . was 'the clear and manifest purpose of Congress' would justify" the conclusion that "state regulation designed to protect vital state interests must give way to paramount federal legislation."  Id., at 357 (some internal quotation marks omitted); see also Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 449 (2005) ("In areas of traditional state regulation, [the Court] assume[s] that a federal statute has not supplanted state law unless Congress has made such an intention 'clear and manifest' " (some internal quotation marks omitted)).
     The Court now tells us that times have changed.  Since De Canas, Congress has enacted "a comprehensive framework for combating the employment of illegal aliens," and even though aliens who seek or obtain unauthorized work are not subject to criminal sanctions, they can suffer civil penalties.  Ante, at 12-13 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Undoubtedly, federal regulation in this area is more pervasive today.  But our task remains unchanged: to determine whether the federal scheme discloses a clear and manifest congressional intent to displace state law.
     The Court gives short shrift to our presumption against pre-emption.  Having no express statement of congressional intent to support its analysis, the Court infers from stale legislative history and from the comprehensiveness of the federal scheme that "Congress made a deliberate choice not to impose criminal penalties on aliens who seek, or engage in, unauthorized employment."  Ante, at 13.  Because §5(C) imposes such penalties, the Court concludes that it stands as an obstacle to the method of enforcement chosen by Congress.  Ante, at 15.
     The one thing that is clear from the federal scheme is that Congress chose not to impose federal criminal penalties on aliens who seek or obtain unauthorized work.  But that does not mean that Congress also chose to pre-empt state criminal penalties.  The inference is plausible, but far from necessary.  As we have said before, the "decision not to adopt a regulation" is not "the functional equivalent of a regulation prohibiting all States and their political subdivisions from adopting such a regulation."  Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine, 537 U. S. 51, 65 (2002).  With any statutory scheme, Congress chooses to do some things and not others.  If that alone were enough to demonstrate pre-emptive intent, there would be little left over for the States to regulate, especially now that federal authority reaches so far and wide.  States would occupy tiny islands in a sea of federal power.  This explains why state laws implicating traditional state powers are not pre-empted unless there is a "clear and manifest" congressional intention to do so.
     Not only is there little evidence that Congress intended to pre-empt state laws like §5(C), there is some evidence that Congress intended the opposite result.  In making it unlawful for employers to hire unauthorized aliens, see 8 U. S. C. §1324a(a), Congress made it clear that "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws)" upon employers was pre-empted, §1324a(h)(2).  Noticeably absent is any similar directive pre-empting state or local laws targeting aliens who seek or obtain unauthorized employment.  Given that Congress expressly pre-empted certain state and local laws pertaining to employers but remained silent about laws pertaining to employees, one could infer that Congress intended to preserve state and local authority to regulate the employee side of the equation.  At the very least, it raises serious doubts about whether Congress intended to pre-empt such authority.
     The Court dismisses any inferences that might be drawn from the express pre-emption provision.  See ante, at 14.  But even though the existence of that provision "does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles" or impose a " 'special burden' " against pre-emption, Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 869-870 (2000), it is still probative of congressional intent.  And it is the intent of Congress that is the "ultimate touchstone."  Retail Clerks v. Schermerhorn, 375 U. S. 96, 103 (1963).  
     The Court infers from Congress' decision not to impose federal criminal penalties that Congress intended to pre-empt state criminal penalties.  But given that the express pre-emption provision covers only state and local laws regulating employers, one could just as well infer that Congress did not intend to pre-empt state or local laws aimed at alien employees who unlawfully seek or obtain work.  Surely Congress' decision not to extend its express pre-emption provision to state or local laws like §5(C) is more probative of its intent on the subject of pre-emption than its decision not to impose federal criminal penalties for unauthorized work.  In any event, the point I wish to emphasize is that inferences can be drawn either way.  There are no necessary inferences that point decisively for or against pre-emption.  Therefore, if we take seriously that state employment regulation is a traditional state concern and can be pre-empted only on a showing of "clear and manifest" congressional intent as required by De Canas, then §5(C) must survive.  "Our precedents establish that a high threshold must be met if a state law is to be pre-empted for conflicting with the purposes of a federal Act."  Chamber of Commerce of United States of America v. Whiting, 563 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 22) (internal quotation marks omitted).  I do not believe the United States has surmounted that barrier here.
Section 6
     I also disagree with the Court's decision that §6 is pre-empted.  This provision adds little to the authority that Arizona officers already possess, and whatever additional authority it confers is consistent with federal law.  Section 6 amended an Arizona statute that authorizes warrantless arrests.  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. §13-3883 (West 2010).  Before §6 was added, that statute already permitted arrests without a warrant for felonies, misdemeanors committed in the arresting officer's presence, petty offenses, and certain traffic-related criminal violations.  See §§13-3883(A)(1)-(4).  Largely duplicating the authority already conferred by these prior subsections, §6 added a new subsection, §13-3883(A)(5) (West Supp. 2011), that authorizes officers to make warrantless arrests on probable cause that the arrestee has committed a "public offense" for which the arrestee is removable from the United States.  A "public offense" is defined as conduct that is punishable by imprisonment or a fine according to the law of the State where the conduct occurred and that would be punishable under Arizona law had the conduct occurred in Arizona.  See §13-105(27).
     In what way, if any, does §6 enlarge the arrest authority of Arizona officers?  It has been suggested that §6 confers new authority in the following three circumstances: (1) where the arrestee committed but has not been charged with committing an offense in another State; (2) where the officer has probable cause to believe the arrestee committed an offense for which he was previously arrested but not prosecuted; and (3) where the arrestee committed but has already served the sentence for a removable offense.  641 F. 3d 359, 361 (CA9 2011). These are exceedingly narrow categories, involving circumstances that will rarely arise.  But such cases are possible, and therefore we must decide whether there are circumstances under which federal law precludes a state officer from making an arrest based on probable cause that the arrestee committed a removable offense.
A
     The idea that state and local officers may carry out arrests in the service of federal law is not unprecedented.  As previously noted, our cases establish that state and local officers may make warrantless arrests for violations of federal law and that "in the absence of an applicable federal statute the law of the state where an arrest without warrant takes place determines its validity."  Di Re, 332 U. S., at 589; see also Miller, 357 U. S., at 305 (stating that, where a state officer makes an arrest based on federal law, "the lawfulness of the arrest without warrant is to be determined by reference to state law").  Therefore, given the premise, which I understand both the United States and the Court to accept, that state and local officers do have inherent authority to make arrests in aid of federal law, we must ask whether Congress has done anything to curtail or pre-empt that authority in this particular case.
     Neither the United States nor the Court goes so far as to say that state and local officers have no power to arrest criminal aliens based on their removability.  To do so would fly in the face of 8 U. S. C. §1357(g)(10).  Under §§1357(g)(1)-(9), the Federal Government may enter into formal agreements with States and municipalities under which their officers may perform certain duties of a federal immigration officer.  But §1357(g)(10)(B) makes clear that States and municipalities need not enter into those agreements "otherwise to cooperate . . . in the identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens not lawfully present in the United States."  It goes without saying that state and local officers could not provide meaningful cooperation in the apprehension, detention, and ultimate removal of criminal aliens without some power to make arrests.
     Although §1357(g)(10) contemplates state and local authority to apprehend criminal aliens for the purpose of removal, the Court rejects out of hand any possibility that officers could exercise that authority without federal direction.  Despite acknowledging that there is "ambiguity as to what constitutes cooperation," the Court says that "no coherent understanding of the term would incorporate the unilateral decision of state officers to arrest an alien for being removable absent any request, approval, or other instruction from the Federal Government."  Ante, at 18.  The Court adopts an unnecessarily stunted view of cooperation.  No one would say that a state or local officer has failed to cooperate by making an on-the-spot arrest to enforce federal law.  Unsolicited aid is not necessarily uncooperative.
     To be sure, were an officer to persist in making an arrest that the officer knows is unwanted, such conduct would not count as cooperation.  But nothing in the relevant federal statutes suggests that Congress does not want aliens who have committed removable offenses to be arrested.2  To the contrary, §1226(c)(1) commands that the Executive "shall take into custody any alien" who is deportable for having committed a specified offense.  And §1226(c)(2) substantially limits the circumstances under which the Executive has discretion to release aliens held in custody under paragraph (1).  So if an officer arrests an alien who is removable for having committed one of the crimes listed in §1226(c)(1), the Federal Government is obligated to take the alien into custody.
     That Congress generally requires the Executive to take custody of criminal aliens casts considerable doubt on the Court's concern that §6 is an obstacle to the Federal Government's exercise of discretion.  The Court claims that the authority conferred by §6 "could be exercised without any input from the Federal Government about whether an arrest is warranted in a particular case" and that this "would allow the State to achieve its own immigration policy," resulting in the "unnecessary harassment of some aliens . . . whom federal officials determine should not be removed."  Ante, at 17.  But §1226(c)(1) belies the Court's fear.  In many, if not most, cases involving aliens who are removable for having committed criminal offenses, Congress has left the Executive no discretion but to take the alien into custody.  State and local officers do not frustrate the removal process by arresting criminal aliens.  The Executive retains complete discretion over whether those aliens are ultimately removed.  And once the Federal Government makes a determination that a particular criminal alien will not be removed, then Arizona officers are presumably no longer authorized under §6 to arrest the alien.
     To be sure, not all offenses for which officers have authority to arrest under §6 are covered by §1226(c)(1).  As for aliens who have committed those offenses, Congress has given the Executive discretion under §1226(a) over whether to arrest and detain them pending a decision on removal.  But the mere fact that the Executive has enforcement discretion cannot mean that the exercise of state police powers in support of federal law is automatically pre-empted.  If that were true, then state and local officers could never make arrests to enforce any federal statute because the Executive always has at least some general discretion over the enforcement of federal law as a practical matter.  But even assuming that the express statutory grant of discretion in §1226(a) somehow indicates a congressional desire to pre-empt unilateral state and local authority to arrest criminal aliens covered by that provision, §6 is not pre-empted on its face given its substantial overlap with §1226(c)(1).
     It bears emphasizing that §6 does not mandate the warrantless apprehension of all aliens who have committed crimes for which they are removable.  Instead, it only grants state and local officers permission to make such arrests.  The trouble with this premature, facial challenge is that it affords Arizona no opportunity to implement its law in a way that would avoid any potential conflicts with federal law.  For example, Arizona could promulgate guidelines or regulations limiting the arrest authority conferred by §6 to the crimes specified in §1226(c)(1).  And to the extent §1226(c)(1) is unclear about which exact crimes are covered,3 Arizona could go even further and identify specific crimes for which there is no doubt an alien would be removable.  The point is that there are plenty of permissible applications of §6, and the Court should not invalidate the statute at this point without at least some indication that Arizona has implemented it in a manner at odds with Congress' clear and manifest intent.  We have said that a facial challenge to a statute is "the most difficult challenge to mount successfully" because "the challenger must establish that no set of circumstances exists under which the [statute] would be valid."  United States v. Salerno, 481 U. S. 739, 745 (1987); see also Anderson v. Edwards, 514 U. S. 143, 155, n. 6 (1995) (applying the Salerno standard in a pre-emption case).  As to §6, I do not believe the United States has carried that heavy burden.
B
     Finally, the Court tells us that §6 conflicts with federal law because it provides state and local officers with "even greater authority to arrest aliens on the basis of possible removability than Congress has given to trained federal immigration officers."  Ante, at 16-17.  The Court points to 8 U. S. C. §1357(a)(2), which empowers "authorized" officers and employees of ICE to make arrests without a federal warrant if "the alien so arrested is in the United States in violation of any [immigration] law or regulation and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest."  Because §6 would allow Arizona officers to make arrests "regardless of whether a federal warrant has issued or the alien is likely to escape," ante, at 17, the Court concludes that §6 is an obstacle to the accomplishment of Congress' objectives.  But §6 is an obstacle only to the extent it conflicts with Congress' clear and manifest intent to preclude state and local officers from making arrests except where a federal warrant has issued or the arrestee is likely to escape.  By granting warrantless arrest authority to federal officers, Congress has not manifested an unmistakable intent to strip state and local officers of their warrantless arrest authority under state law.
     Likewise, limitations on federal arrest authority do not mean that the arrest authority of state and local officers must be similarly limited.  Our opinion in Miller, 357 U. S. 301, is instructive.  In that case, a District of Columbia officer, accompanied by a federal officer, made an arrest based on a suspected federal narcotics offense.  Id., at 303-304.  The federal officer did not have statutory authorization to arrest without a warrant, but the local officer did.  Id., at 305.  We held that District of Columbia law dictated the lawfulness of the arrest.  Id., at 305-306.  Where a state or local officer makes a warrantless arrest to enforce federal law, we said that "the lawfulness of the arrest without warrant is to be determined by reference to state law."  Id., at 305.  Under §6, an Arizona officer may be authorized to make an arrest that a federal officer may not be authorized to make under §1357(a)(2).  As Miller makes clear, that fact alone does not render arrests by state or local officers pursuant to §6 unlawful.  Nor does it manifest a clear congressional intent to displace the exercise of state police powers that are brought to bear in aid of federal law.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Many of the 17th-, 18th-, and 19th-century commentators maintained that states should exclude foreigners only for good reason. Pufendorf, for example, maintained that states are generally expected to grant "permanent settlement to strangers who have been driven from their former home," though acknowledging that, when faced with the prospect of mass immigration, "every state may decide after its own custom what privilege should be granted in such a situation."  2 Of the Law of Nature and Nations, bk. III, ch. III, §10, p. 366 (C. Oldfather & W. Oldfather eds. 1934).  See generally Cleveland, Powers Inherent in Sovereignty: Indians, Aliens, Territories, and the Nineteenth Century Origins of Plenary Power over Foreign Affairs, 81 Tex. L. Rev. 1, 83-87 (2002).  But the authority to exclude was universally accepted as inherent in sovereignty, whatever prudential limitations there might be on its exercise.
Footnote 2 E.g., Va. Code Tit. 54, ch. 198, §39 (1849) ("If a master of a vessel or other person, knowingly, import or bring into this state, from any place out of the United States, any person convicted of crime . . . he shall be confined in jail for three months, and be fined one hundred dollars").
Footnote 3 There were two Alien Acts, one of which dealt only with enemy aliens.  An Act respecting Alien Enemies, 1 Stat. 577.
Footnote 4 Preston & Cushman, Obama to Permit Young Migrants to Remain in U. S., N. Y. Times, June 16, 2012, p. A1.
Footnote 5 Memorandum from Janet Napolitano, Secretary of Homeland Security, to David V. Aguilar, Acting Commissioner, U. S. Customs and Border Protection; Alejandro Mayorkas, Director, U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; and John Morton, Director, U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, p. 1 (June 15, 2012), online at http://www.dhs.gov (all Internet materials as visited June 22, 2012, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).
Footnote 6 Id., at 2.
Footnote 7 Remarks by the President on Immigration (June 15, 2012), online at http://www.whitehouse.gov.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 When the Real ID Act takes effect, the Federal Government will no longer accept state forms of identification that fail to meet certain federal requirements.  §202(a)(1), 119 Stat. 312.  One requirement is that any identification be issued only on proof that the applicant is lawfully present in the United States. §202(c)(2)(B), id., at 313.  I anticipate that most, if not all, States will eventually issue forms of identification that suffice to establish lawful presence under §2(B).
Footnote 2 That goes for the Executive Branch as well, which has made the apprehension and removal of criminal aliens a priority.  See App. 108.
Footnote 3 I readily admit that it can be difficult to determine whether a particular conviction will necessarily make an alien removable.  See Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4).





United States Supreme Court
HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL v. MARTINEZ GUTIERREZ, (2012)
No. 10-1542
Argued: January 18, 2012    Decided: May 21, 2012


Title 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a) authorizes the Attorney General to cancel the removal of an alien from the United States who, among other things, has held the status of a lawful permanent resident (LPR) for at least five years, §1229b(a)(1), and has lived in the United States for at least seven continuous years after a lawful admission, §1229b(a)(2).  These cases concern whether the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board) should impute a parent's years of continuous residence or LPR status to his or her child.  That issue arises because a child may enter the country lawfully, or may gain LPR status, after one of his parents does--meaning that a parent may satisfy §1229b(a)(1) or §1229b(a)(2), while his child, considered independently, does not.  In In re Escobar, 24 I. & N. Dec. 231, the BIA concluded that an alien must meet §1229b(a)'s requirements on his own.  But the Ninth Circuit found the Board's position unreasonable, holding that §1229b(a)(1) and §1229b(a)(2) require imputation.  See Mercado-Zazueta v. Holder, 580 F. 3d 1102; Cuevas-Gaspar v. Gonzales, 430 F. 3d 1013.
          Respondent Martinez Gutierrez illegally entered the country with his family in 1989, when he was 5 years old.  Martinez Gutierrez's father was lawfully admitted to the country two years later as an LPR.  But Martinez Gutierrez was neither lawfully admitted nor given LPR status until 2003.  Two years after that, he was apprehended for smuggling undocumented aliens across the border.  Admitting the offense, he sought cancellation of removal.  The Immigration Judge concluded that Martinez Gutierrez qualified for relief because of his father's immigration history, even though Martinez Gutierrez could not satisfy §1229b(a)(1) or §1229b(a)(2) on his own.  Relying on Escobar, the BIA reversed.  The Ninth Circuit then granted Martinez Gutierrez's petition for review and remanded the case to the Board for reconsideration in light of its contrary decisions.
          Respondent Sawyers was lawfully admitted as an LPR in October 1995, when he was 15 years old.  At that time, his mother had already resided in the country for six consecutive years following a lawful entry.  After Sawyers was convicted of a drug offense in August 2002, the Government began removal proceedings.  The Immigration Judge found Sawyers ineligible for cancellation of removal because he could not satisfy §1229b(a)(2).  The BIA affirmed, and Sawyers petitioned the Ninth Circuit for review.  There, he argued that the Board should have counted his mother's years of residency while he was a minor toward §1229b(a)(2)'s 7-year continuous-residency requirement.  The Court of Appeals granted the petition and remanded the case to the BIA.  
Held: The BIA's rejection of imputation is based on a permissible construction of §1229b(a).  Pp. 6-13.
     (a) The Board has required each alien seeking cancellation of removal to satisfy §1229b(a)'s requirements on his own, without relying on a parent's years of continuous residence or immigration status.  That position prevails if it is a reasonable construction of the statute, whether or not it is the only possible interpretation or even the one a court might think best.  See e.g., Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843-844, and n. 11.  The BIA's approach satisfies this standard.
     The Board's position is consistent with the statute's text.  Section 1229b(a) does not mention--much less require--imputation.  Instead, it simply calls for "the alien" to meet the prerequisites for cancellation of removal.  See §§1101(a)(13)(A) and (a)(33).  Respondents contend that this language does not foreclose imputation, but even if so, that is not enough to require the Board to adopt that policy.  Pp. 6-7.
     (b) Neither does the statute's history and context mandate imputation.  Section 1229b(a) replaced former §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), which allowed the Attorney General to prevent the removal of an alien with LPR status who had maintained a "lawful unrelinquished domicile of seven consecutive years" in this country.  Like §1229b(a), §212(c) was silent on imputation.  But every Court of Appeals that confronted the question concluded that, in determining eligibility for §212(c) relief, the Board should impute a parent's years of domicile to his or her child.  Based on this history, Sawyers contends that Congress would have understood §1229b(a)'s language to provide for imputation.  But in enacting §1229b(a), Congress eliminated the very term--"domicile"--on which the appeals courts had founded their imputation decisions.  And the doctrine of congressional ratification applies only when Congress reenacts a statute without relevant change.  See Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 543 U. S. 335, 349.
     Nor do the INA's purposes demand imputation.  As respondents correctly observe, many provisions of immigration law advance the goals of promoting family unity and providing relief to aliens with strong ties to this country.  But these are not the INA's only goals, and Congress did not pursue them at all costs.  For example, aliens convicted of aggravated felonies are ineligible for cancellation of removal, regardless of the strength of their family ties, see §1229b(a)(3).  In addition, as these cases show, not every alien with LPR status can immediately get the same for a spouse or minor child.  A silent statute cannot be read as requiring imputation just because that rule would be family-friendly.  Pp. 7-10.
     (c) Respondents advance two additional arguments for why the Board's position is not entitled to Chevron deference.  First, they claim that the Board's approach to §1229b(a) is arbitrary because it is inconsistent with the Board's acceptance of imputation under other, similar provisions that are silent on the matter.  See §1182(k) and §1181(b).  But the Board's decision in Escobar provided a reasoned explanation for these divergent results: The Board imputes matters involving an alien's state of mind, while declining to impute objective conditions or characteristics.  See 24 I. & N. Dec., at 233-234, and n. 4.  Section 1229b(a) hinges on the objective facts of immigration status and place of residence.  See id., at 233.  So the Board's approach to §1229b(a) largely follows from one straightforward distinction.
     Second, respondents claim that the BIA adopted its no-imputation rule only because it thought Congress had left it no other choice.  But Escobar belies this contention.  The Board did explain how §1229b(a)'s text supports its no-imputation policy.  But the Board also brought its experience and expertise to bear on the matter: It noted that there was no precedent in its decisions for imputing status or residence, and it argued that allowing imputation under §1229b(a) would create anomalies in the statutory scheme.  Escobar thus expressed the BIA's view that statutory text, administrative practice, and regulatory policy all pointed toward disallowing imputation.  In making that case, the opinion reads like a multitude of agency interpretations to which this and other courts have routinely deferred.  Pp. 10-13.
No. 10-1542, 411 Fed. Appx. 121; No. 10-1543, 399 Fed. Appx. 313, reversed and remanded.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Opinion of the Court
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
Nos. 10-1542 and 10-1543
ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER 10-1542     v. CARLOS MARTINEZ GUTIERREZ ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER 10-1543     v. DAMIEN ANTONIO SAWYERS


on writs of certiorari to the united states court ofappeals for the ninth circuit
[May 21, 2012]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     An immigration statute, 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a), authorizes the Attorney General to cancel the removal of an alien from the United States so long as the alien satisfies certain criteria.  One of those criteria relates to the length of time an alien has lawfully resided in the United States, and another to the length of time he has held permanent resident status here.  We consider whether the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board) could reasonably conclude that an alien living in this country as a child must meet those requirements on his own, without counting a parent's years of residence or immigration status.  We hold that the BIA's approach is based on a permissible construction of the statute.
I
A
     The immigration laws have long given the Attorney General discretion to permit certain otherwise-removable aliens to remain in the United States.  See Judulang v. Holder, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 2-4).  The Attorney General formerly exercised this authority by virtue of §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 187, 8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.), a provision with some lingering relevance here, see infra, at 7-9.  But in 1996, Congress replaced §212(c) with §1229b(a) (2006 ed.).  That new section, applicable to the cases before us, provides as follows:
"(a) Cancellation of removal for certain permanent residents
"The Attorney General may cancel removal in the case of an alien who is inadmissible or deportable from the United States if the alien--
"(1) has been an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence for not less than 5 years,
"(2) has resided in the United States continuously for 7 years after having been admitted in any status, and
"(3) has not been convicted of any aggravated felony."  Ibid. 
Section 1229b(a) thus specifies the criteria that make an alien eligible to obtain relief from the Attorney General.  The first paragraph requires that the alien have held the status of a lawful permanent resident (LPR) for at least five years.  And the second adds that the alien must have lived in the United States for at least seven continuous years after a lawful admission, whether as an LPR or in some other immigration status.1  (The third paragraph is not at issue in these cases.)
     The question we consider here is whether, in applying this statutory provision, the BIA should impute a parent's years of continuous residence or LPR status to his or her child.  That question arises because a child may enter the country lawfully, or may gain LPR status, after one of his parents does.  A parent may therefore satisfy the requirements of §§1229b(a)(1) and (2), while his or her child, considered independently, does not.  In these circumstances, is the child eligible for cancellation of removal?
     The Ninth Circuit, the first court of appeals to confront this issue, held that such an alien could obtain relief.  See Cuevas-Gaspar v. Gonzales, 430 F. 3d 1013 (2005).  Enrique Cuevas-Gaspar and his parents came to the United States illegally in 1985, when he was one year old.  Cuevas-Gaspar's mother was lawfully admitted to the country in 1990, as an LPR.  But Cuevas-Gaspar was lawfully admitted only in 1997, when he too received LPR status.  That meant that when Cuevas-Gaspar committed a removable offense in 2002, he could not independently satisfy §1229b(a)(2)'s requirement of seven consecutive years of residence after a lawful entry.2  (The parties agreed that he just met §1229b(a)(1)'s 5-year status requirement.)  The Board deemed Cuevas-Gaspar ineligible for relief on that account, but the Ninth Circuit found that position unreasonable.  According to the Court of Appeals, the Board should have "imputed" to Cuevas-Gaspar his mother's years of continuous residence during the time he lived with her as an "unemancipated minor."  Id., at 1029.  That approach, the Ninth Circuit reasoned, followed from both the INA's "priorit[ization]" of familial relations and the Board's "consistent willingness" to make imputations from a parent to a child in many areas of immigration law.  Id., at 1026.
     The Board responded by reiterating its opposition to imputation under both relevant paragraphs of §1229b(a).  In In re Escobar, 24 I. & N. Dec. 231 (2007), the Board considered whether a child could rely on a parent's period of LPR status to satisfy §1229b(a)(1)'s 5-year clock.  The Board expressly "disagree[d] with the reasoning" of Cuevas-Gaspar, rejecting the Ninth Circuit's understanding of both the statute and the Board's prior policies.  24 I. & N. Dec., at 233-234, and n. 4.  Accordingly, the Board announced that it would "decline to extend" Cuevas-Gaspar to any case involving §1229b(a)(1), and that it would ignore the decision even as to §1229b(a)(2) outside the Ninth Circuit.  24 I. & N. Dec., at 235.  A year later, in Matter of Ramirez-Vargas, 24 I. & N. Dec. 599 (2008), the BIA took the final step: It rejected imputation under §1229b(a)(2) in a case arising in the Ninth Circuit, maintaining that the court should abandon Cuevas-Gaspar and defer to the Board's intervening reasoned decision in Escobar.  See Ramirez-Vargas, 24 I. & N. Dec., at 600-601 (citing National Cable & Telecommunications Assn. v. Brand X Internet Services, 545 U. S. 967 (2005)).
     The BIA's position on imputation touched off a split in the courts of appeals.  The Third and Fifth Circuits both deferred to the BIA's approach as a reasonable construction of §1229b(a).  See Augustin v. Attorney Gen., 520 F. 3d 264 (CA3 2008); Deus v. Holder, 591 F. 3d 807 (CA5 2009).  But in Mercado-Zazueta v. Holder, 580 F. 3d 1102 (2009), the Ninth Circuit doubled down on its contrary view, declaring the BIA's position unreasonable and requiring imputation under both §§1229b(a)(1) and (a)(2).  See id., at 1103 ("[T]he rationale and holding of Cuevas-Gaspar apply equally to the five-year permanent residence and the seven-year continuance residence requirements" of §1229b(a)).
B
     Two cases are before us.  In 1989, at the age of five, respondent Carlos Martinez Gutierrez illegally entered the United States with his family.  Martinez Gutierrez's father was lawfully admitted to the country two years later as an LPR.  But Martinez Gutierrez himself was neither lawfully admitted nor given LPR status until 2003.  Two years after that, Martinez Gutierrez was apprehended for smuggling undocumented aliens across the border.  He admitted the offense, and sought cancellation of removal.  The Immigration Judge concluded that Martinez Gutierrez qualified for relief because of his father's immigration history, even though Martinez Gutierrez could not satisfy either §1229b(a)(1) or §1229b(a)(2) on his own.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 10-1542, pp. 20a-22a (citing Cuevas-Gaspar, 430 F. 3d 1013).  The BIA reversed, and after entry of a removal order on remand, reaffirmed its disposition in an order relying on Escobar, see App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 10-1542, at 5a-6a.  The Ninth Circuit then granted Martinez Gutierrez's petition for review and remanded the case to the Board for reconsideration in light of the court's contrary decisions.  See 411 Fed. Appx. 121 (2011).
     Respondent Damien Sawyers was lawfully admitted as an LPR in October 1995, when he was 15 years old.  At that time, his mother had already resided in the country for six consecutive years following a lawful entry.  After Sawyers's conviction of a drug offense in August 2002, the Government initiated removal proceedings.  The Immigration Judge found Sawyers ineligible for cancellation of removal because he was a few months shy of the seven years of continuous residence required under §1229b(a)(2).  See App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 10-1543, p. 13a.  (No one doubted that Sawyers had by that time held LPR status for five years, as required under §1229b(a)(1).)  The Board affirmed, relying on its reasoning in Escobar.  See In re Sawyers, No. A44 852 478, 2007 WL 4711443 (Dec. 26, 2007).  Sawyers petitioned the Ninth Circuit for review, arguing that the Board should have counted his mother's years of residency while he was a minor toward §1229b(a)(2)'s 7-year requirement.  As in Gutierrez, the Court of Appeals granted the petition and remanded the case to the BIA.  See 399 Fed. Appx. 313 (2010).
     We granted the Government's petitions for certiorari, 564 U. S. ___ (2011), consolidated the cases, and now reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgments.
II
     The Board has required each alien seeking cancellation of removal to satisfy §1229b(a)'s requirements on his own, without counting a parent's years of continuous residence or LPR status.  That position prevails if it is a reasonable construction of the statute, whether or not it is the only possible interpretation or even the one a court might think best.  See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843-844, and n. 11 (1984); see also INS v. Aguirre-Aguirre, 526 U. S. 415, 424-425 (1999) (according Chevron deference to the Board's interpretations of the INA).  We think the BIA's view on imputation meets that standard, and so need not decide if the statute permits any other construction.
     The Board's approach is consistent with the statute's text, as even respondents tacitly concede.  Section 1229b(a) does not mention imputation, much less require it.  The provision calls for "the alien"--not, say, "the alien or one of his parents"--to meet the three prerequisites for cancellation of removal.  Similarly, several of §1229b(a)'s other terms have statutory definitions referring to only a single individual.  See, e.g., §1101(a)(13)(A) ("The terms 'admission' and 'admitted' mean, with respect to an alien, the lawful entry of the alien into the United States" (emphasis added)); §1101(a)(33) ("The term 'residence' means the place of general abode; the place of general abode of a person means his principal, actual dwelling" (emphasis added)).  Respondents contend that none of this language "forecloses" imputation: They argue that if the Board allowed imputation, "[t]he alien" seeking cancellation would "still have to satisfy the provision's durational requirements"--just pursuant to a different computational rule.  Brief for Respondent Martinez Gutierrez in No. 10-1542, p. 16 (hereinafter Martinez Gutierrez Brief); see Brief for Respondent Sawyers in No. 10-1543, pp. 11, 15 (hereinafter Sawyers Brief).  And they claim that the Board's history of permitting imputation under similarly "silent" statutes supports this construction.  Martinez Gutierrez Brief 16; see Sawyers Brief 15-16; infra, at 10-11.  But even if so--even if the Board could adopt an imputation rule consistent with the statute's text--that would not avail respondents.  Taken alone, the language of §1229b(a) at least permits the Board to go the other way--to say that "the alien" must meet the statutory conditions independently, without relying on a parent's history.
     For this reason, respondents focus on §1229b(a)'s history and context--particularly, the provision's relationship to the INA's former §212(c) and its associated imputation rule.  Section 212(c)--§1229b(a)'s predecessor--generally allowed the Attorney General to prevent the removal of an alien with LPR status who had maintained a "lawful unrelinquished domicile of seven consecutive years" in this country.  8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.).  Like §1229b(a), §212(c) was silent on imputation.  Yet the Second, Third, and Ninth Circuits (the only appellate courts to consider the question) concluded that, in determining eligibility for relief under §212(c), the Board should impute a parent's years of domicile to his or her child.  See Rosario v. INS, 962 F. 2d 220 (CA2 1992); Lepe-Guitron v. INS, 16 F. 3d 1021, 1024-1026 (CA9 1994); Morel v. INS, 90 F. 3d 833, 840-842 (CA3 1996).  Those courts reasoned that at common law, a minor's domicile was "the same as that of its parents, since most children are presumed not legally capable of forming the requisite intent to establish their own domicile."  Rosario, 962 F. 2d, at 224; see Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield, 490 U. S. 30, 48 (1989) (defining "domicile" as "physical presence in a place in connection with a certain state of mind concerning one's intent to remain there").  So by the time Congress replaced §212(c) with §1229b(a), the BIA often imputed a parent's years of domicile to a child in determining eligibility for cancellation of removal.  Sawyers argues that against this backdrop, Congress "would have understood the language it chose [in §1229b(a)] to provide for imputation."  Sawyers Brief 10.
     But we cannot conclude that Congress ratified an imputation requirement when it passed §1229b(a).  As all parties agree, Congress enacted §§1229b(a)(1) and (a)(2) to resolve an unrelated question about §212(c)'s meaning.  See id., at 17; Martinez Gutierrez Brief 28; Brief for Petitioner 25.  Courts had differed on whether an alien's "seven consecutive years" of domicile under §212(c) all had to post-date the alien's obtaining LPR status.  See Cuevas-Gaspar, 430 F. 3d, at 1027-1028 (canvassing split).  Congress addressed that split by creating two distinct durational conditions: the 5-year status requirement of subsection (a)(1), which runs from the time an alien becomes an LPR, and the 7-year continuous-residency requirement of subsection (a)(2), which can include years preceding the acquisition of LPR status.  In doing so, Congress eliminated the very term--"domicile"--on which the appeals courts had founded their imputation decisions.  See supra, at 8.  That alteration dooms respondents' position, because the doctrine of congressional ratification applies only when Congress reenacts a statute without relevant change.  See Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 543 U. S. 335, 349 (2005).3  So the statutory history here provides no basis for holding that the BIA flouted a congressional command in adopting its no-imputation policy.
     Nor do the INA's purposes demand imputation here, as both respondents claim.  According to Martinez Gutierrez, the BIA's approach contradicts that statute's objectives of "providing relief to aliens with strong ties to the United States" and "promoting family unity."  Martinez Gutierrez Brief 40, 44; see Sawyers Brief 37.  We agree--indeed, we have stated--that the goals respondents identify underlie or inform many provisions of immigration law.  See Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 795, n. 6 (1977); INS v. Errico, 385 U. S. 214, 220 (1966).  But they are not the INA's only goals, and Congress did not pursue them to the nth degree.  To take one example, §1229b(a)'s third paragraph makes aliens convicted of aggravated felonies ineligible for cancellation of removal, regardless of the strength of their family ties.  See §1229b(a)(3).  And more generally--as these very cases show--not every alien who obtains LPR status can immediately get the same for her spouse or minor children.  See Brief for Petitioner 31-32, and n. 9 (providing program-specific examples).  We cannot read a silent statute as requiring (not merely allowing) imputation just because that rule would be family-friendly.
     Respondents' stronger arguments take a different tack--that we should refuse to defer to the Board's decision even assuming Congress placed the question of imputation in its hands.  Respondents offer two main reasons.  First, they contend that the Board's approach to §1229b(a) cannot be squared with its acceptance of imputation under other, similar statutory provisions.  This "wil[d]" and " '[u]nexplained inconsistency,' " Sawyers asserts, is the very "paradigm of arbitrary agency action."  Sawyers Brief 13, 41 (emphasis deleted); see Martinez Gutierrez Brief 52-54.  Second, they argue that the Board did not appreciate its own discretion over whether to allow imputation.  The Board, they say, thought Congress had forbidden imputation, and so did not bring its " 'experience and expertise to bear' " on the issue.  Id., at 31 (quoting PDK Labs. Inc. v. DEA, 362 F. 3d 786, 797 (CADC 2004)); see Sawyers Brief 38-39.  These arguments are not insubstantial, but in the end neither persuades us to deny the Board the usual deference we accord to agency interpretations.
     Start with the claim of inconsistency.  The BIA has indeed imputed parental attributes to children under other INA provisions that do not mention the matter.  Section 1182(k), for example, enables the Attorney General to let certain inadmissible aliens into the country if he finds "that inadmissibility was not known to, and could not have been ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence by, the immigrant before the time of departure."  Like §1229b(a), that provision refers to a single person ("the immigrant") and says nothing about imputation.  But the BIA has consistently imputed a parent's knowledge of inadmissibility (or lack thereof) to a child.  See, e.g., Senica v. INS, 16 F. 3d 1013, 1015 (CA9 1994) ("Therefore, the BIA reasoned, the children were not entitled to relief under [§1182(k)] because [their mother's] knowledge was imputed to them"); In re Mushtaq, No. A43 968 082, 2007 WL 4707539 (BIA, Dec. 10, 2007) (per curiam); In re Ahmed, No. A41 982 631, 2006 WL 448156 (BIA, Jan. 17, 2006) (per curiam).
     Similarly, the Board imputes a parent's abandonment (or non-abandonment) of LPR status to her child when determining whether that child can reenter the country as a "returning resident immigran[t]" under §1181(b).  See Matter of Zamora, 17 I. & N. Dec. 395, 396 (1980) (holding that a "voluntary and intended abandonment by the mother is imputed" to an unemancipated minor child for purposes of applying §1181(b)); Matter of Huang, 19 I. & N. Dec. 749, 755-756 (1988) (concluding that a mother and her children abandoned their LPR status based solely on the mother's intent); In re Ali, No. A44 143 723, 2006 WL 3088820 (BIA, Sept. 11, 2006) (holding that a child could not have abandoned his LPR status if his mother had not abandoned hers).  And once again, that is so even though neither §1181(b) nor any other statutory provision says that the BIA should look to the parent in assessing the child's eligibility for reentry.
     But Escobar provided a reasoned explanation for these divergent results: The Board imputes matters involving an alien's state of mind, while declining to impute objective conditions or characteristics.  See 24 I. & N. Dec., at 233-234, and n. 4.  On one side of the line, knowledge of inadmissibility is all and only about a mental state.  See, e.g., Senica, 16 F. 3d, at 1015; In re Ahmed, 2006 WL 448156.  Likewise, abandonment of status turns on an alien's "intention of . . . returning to the United States" to live as a permanent resident, Zamora, 17 I. & N. Dec., at 396; the Board thus explained that imputing abandonment is "consistent with the . . . longstanding policy that a child cannot form the intent necessary to establish his or her own domicile," Escobar, 24 I. & N. Dec., at 234, n. 4.  And as that analogy recalls, the 7-year domicile requirement of the former §212(c) also involved intent and so lent itself to imputation.  See Rosario, 962 F. 2d, at 224; supra, at 8.  But the 5- and 7-year clocks of §1229b(a) fall on the other side of the line, because they hinge not on any state of mind but on the objective facts of immigration status and place of residence.  See Escobar, 24 I. & N. Dec., at 233 ("[W]e find that residence is different from domicile because it 'contains no element of subjective intent' " (quoting Cuevas-Gaspar, 430 F. 3d, at 1031 (Fernandez, J., dissenting))).  The BIA's varied rulings on imputation thus largely follow from one straightforward distinction.4
     Similarly, Escobar belies respondents' claim that the BIA adopted its no-imputation rule only because it thought Congress had left it no other choice.  The Board, to be sure, did not highlight the statute's gaps or ambiguity; rather, it read §1229b(a)'s text to support its conclusion that each alien must personally meet that section's durational requirements.  See 24 I. & N. Dec., at 235.  But the Board also explained that "there [was] no precedent" in its decisions for imputing status or residence, and distinguished those statutory terms, on the ground just explained, from domicile or abandonment of LPR status.  Id., at 234; see id., at 233-234, and n. 4.  And the Board argued that allowing imputation under §1229b(a) would create anomalies in administration of the statutory scheme by permitting even those who had not obtained LPR status--or could not do so because of a criminal history--to become eligible for cancellation of removal.  See id., at 234-235, and n. 5.  The Board therefore saw neither a "logical" nor a "legal" basis for adopting a policy of imputation.  Id., at 233.  We see nothing in this decision to suggest that the Board thought its hands tied, or that it might have reached a different result if assured it could do so.  To the contrary, the decision expressed the BIA's view, based on its experience implementing the INA, that statutory text, administrative practice, and regulatory policy all pointed in one direction: toward disallowing imputation.  In making that case, the decision reads like a multitude of agency interpretations--not the best example, but far from the worst--to which we and other courts have routinely deferred.  We see no reason not to do so here.
     Because the Board's rejection of imputation under §1229b(a) is "based on a permissible construction of the statute," Chevron, 467 U. S., at 843, we reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgments and remand the cases for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 Together with No. 10-1543, Holder, Attorney General v. Sawyers, also on certiorari to the same court.
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 The INA defines "admitted" as referring to "the lawful entry of the alien into the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer."  8 U. S. C. §1101 (a)(13)(A).  The 7-year clock of §1229b(a)(2) thus begins with an alien's lawful entry.
Footnote 2 The 7-year clock stopped running on the date of Cuevas-Gaspar's offense under a statutory provision known as the "stop-time" rule.  See §1229b(d)(1) ("For purposes of this section, any period of continuous residence . . . in the United States shall be deemed to end . . . when the alien is served a notice to appear . . . or . . . when the alien has committed an offense . . . that renders the alien . . . removable from the United States . . . , whichever is earliest").
Footnote 3 Sawyers contends that §1229b(a)(2)'s replacement term--"resided continuously"--is a "term of art" in the immigration context which incorporates "an intent component" and so means the same thing as "domiciled."  Sawyers Brief 25-26 (emphasis deleted).  Thus, Sawyers argues, we should read §1229b(a) as reenacting §212(c) without meaningful change.  See id., at 25.  But even assuming that Congress could ratify judicial decisions based on the term "domicile" through a new statute using a synonym for that term, we do not think "resided continuously" qualifies.  The INA defines "residence" as a person's "principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without regard to intent," 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(33) (emphasis added), and we find nothing to suggest that Congress added an intent element, inconsistent with that definition, by requiring that the residence have been maintained "continuously for 7 years."
Footnote 4 Respondents aver that the BIA deviates from this principle in imputing to a child his parent's " 'firm resettlement' " in another country, which renders an alien ineligible for asylum without regard to intent.  See Sawyers Brief 39; Martinez Gutierrez Brief 52.  But the Government denies that it has a "settled imputation rule" in that context.  Reply Brief for Petitioner 13.  And the sources on which respondents rely are slender reeds: a 40-year old ruling by a regional commissioner (not the Board itself) that considered the conduct of both the parents and the child, see Matter of Ng, 12 I. & N. Dec. 411 (1967), and a Ninth Circuit decision imputing a parent's resettlement even though the Board had focused only on the child's actions, see Vang v. INS, 146 F. 3d 1114, 1117 (1998).  Based on these scant decisions, we cannot conclude that the Board has any policy on imputing resettlement, let alone one inconsistent with Escobar.





United States Supreme Court
VARTELAS v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2012)
No. 10-1211
Argued: January 18, 2012    Decided: March 28, 2012


Before passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), United States immigration law provided deportation hearings for excludable aliens who had already entered the United States and exclusion hearings for excludable aliens seeking entry into the United States.  Lawful permanent residents were not regarded as making an "entry," upon their return from "innocent, casual, and brief excursion[s] . . . outside this country's borders."  Rosenberg v. Fleuti, 374 U. S. 449, 462.  In IIRIRA, Congress abolished the distinction between exclusion and deportation procedures, creating a uniform "removal" proceeding.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1229, 1229a.  Congress made "admission" the key word, and defined "admission" to mean "the lawful entry of the alien into the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer."  §1101(a)(13)(A).  This alteration, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) determined, superseded Fleuti.  Thus, lawful permanent residents returning from a trip abroad are now regarded as seeking admission if they have "committed an offense identified in section 1182(a)(2)," §1101(a)(13)(C)(v), including, as relevant here, "a crime involving moral turpitude . . . or conspiracy to commit such a crime,"  §1182(a)(2)(A)(i).
          Petitioner Vartelas, a lawful permanent resident of the United States since 1989, pleaded guilty to a felony (conspiring to make a counterfeit security) in 1994, and served a 4-month prison sentence.  In the years after his conviction, and even after IIRIRA's passage, Vartelas regularly traveled to Greece to visit his aging parents.  In 2003, when Vartelas returned from a week-long trip to Greece, an immigration officer classified him as an alien seeking "admission" based on his 1994 conviction.  At Vartelas' removal proceedings, his attorneys conceded removability and requested discretionary relief under former §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.  The Immigration Judge denied the request for relief, and ordered Vartelas removed to Greece.  The BIA affirmed.  In 2008, Vartelas filed with the BIA a timely motion to reopen the removal proceedings, alleging that his previous attorneys were ineffective for, among other lapses, conceding his removability.  He sought to withdraw the concession of removability on the ground that IIRIRA's new "admission" provision did not reach back to deprive him of lawful resident status based on his pre-IIRIRA conviction.  The BIA denied the motion.  The Second Circuit affirmed.  Rejecting Vartelas' argument that IIRIRA operated prospectively and therefore did not govern his case, the Second Circuit reasoned that he had not relied on the prior legal regime at the time he committed the disqualifying crime.
Held: The impact of Vartelas' brief travel abroad on his permanent resident status is determined not by IIRIRA, but by the legal regime in force at the time of his conviction.  Pp. 7-17.
     (a) Under the principle against retroactive legislation invoked by Vartelas, courts read laws as prospective in application unless Congress has unambiguously instructed retroactivity.  See Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 263.  The presumption against retroactive legislation "embodies a legal doctrine centuries older than our Republic."  Id., at 265.  Numerous decisions of this Court have invoked Justice Story's formulation for determining when a law's retrospective application would collide with the doctrine, namely, as relevant here, when such application would "attac[h] a new disability, in respect to transactions or considerations already past," Society for Propagation of Gospel v. Wheeler, 22 F. Cas. 756, 767.  See, e.g., INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 321; Hughes Aircraft Co. v. United States ex rel. Schumer, 520 U. S. 939, 947; Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 283.  Vartelas urges that applying IIRIRA to him would attach a "new disability," effectively a ban on travel outside the United States, "in respect to" past events, specifically, his offense, guilty plea, conviction, and punishment, all occurring prior to IIRIRA's passage.
     Congress did not expressly prescribe §1101(a)(13)'s temporal reach.  The Court, therefore, proceeds to the dispositive question whether application of IIRIRA's travel restraint to Vartelas "would have retroactive effect" Congress did not authorize.  See id., at 280.  Vartelas presents a firm case for application of the antiretroactivity principle.  Beyond genuine doubt §1101(a)(13)(C)(v)'s restraint on lawful permanent residents like Vartelas ranks as a "new disability."  Once able to journey abroad to, e.g., fulfill religious obligations or respond to family emergencies, they now face potential banishment, a severe sanction.  See, e.g., Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, ___.  The Government suggests that Vartelas could have avoided any adverse consequences if he simply stayed at home in the United States.  But losing the ability to travel abroad is itself a harsh penalty, made all the more devastating if it means enduring separation from close family members.
     This Court has rejected arguments for retroactivity in similar cases, see Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, 559; St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 321-323, and in cases in which the loss at stake was less momentous, see Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 280-286; Hughes Aircraft, 520 U. S., at 946-950.  Pp. 7-11.
     (b) The Court finds disingenuous the Government's argument that no retroactive effect is involved in this case because the relevant event is the alien's post-IIRIRA return to the United States.  Vartelas' return occasioned his treatment as a new entrant, but the reason for his "new disability" was his pre-IIRIRA conviction.  That past misconduct is the wrongful activity targeted by §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  Pp. 11-13.
     (c) In determining that the change IIRIRA wrought had no retroactive effect, the Second Circuit homed in on the words "committed an offense" in §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  It reasoned that reliance on the prior law is essential to application of the antiretroactivity principle, and that Vartelas did not commit his crime in reliance on immigration laws.  This reasoning is doubly flawed.  A party is not required to show reliance on the prior law in structuring his conduct.  See, e.g., Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 282, n. 35.  In any event, Vartelas likely relied on then-existing immigration law, and this likelihood strengthens the case for reading a newly enacted law prospectively.  St. Cyr is illustrative.  There, a lawful permanent resident pleaded guilty to a criminal charge that made him deportable.  Under the immigration law in effect when he was convicted, he would have been eligible to apply for a waiver of deportation.  But his removal proceeding was commenced after IIRIRA withdrew that dispensation.  Disallowance of discretionary waivers attached a new disability to past conduct, 533 U. S., at 321.  Aliens like St. Cyr "almost certainly relied upon th[e] likelihood [of receiving discretionary relief] in deciding [to plead guilty, thereby] forgo[ing] their right to a trial," id., at 325.  Because applying the IIRIRA withdrawal to St. Cyr would have an "obvious and severe retroactive effect," ibid., and Congress made no such intention plain, ibid., n. 55, the prior law governed St. Cyr's case.  Vartelas' case is at least as clear as St. Cyr's for declining to apply a new law retroactively.  St. Cyr could seek only the Attorney General's discretionary dispensation, while Vartelas, under Fleuti, was free, without seeking an official's permission, to make short trips to see and assist his parents in Greece.  The Second Circuit compounded its initial misperception of the antiretroactivity principle by holding otherwise.  Fleuti continues to govern Vartelas' short-term travel.  Pp. 14-17.
620 F. 3d 108, reversed and remanded.
     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Scalia, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas and Alito, JJ., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 10-1211
PANAGIS VARTELAS, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[March 28, 2012]

     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
     Panagis Vartelas, a native of Greece, became a lawful permanent resident of the United States in 1989.  He pleaded guilty to a felony (conspiring to make a counterfeit security) in 1994, and served a prison sentence of four months for that offense.  Vartelas traveled to Greece in 2003 to visit his parents.  On his return to the United States a week later, he was treated as an inadmissible alien and placed in removal proceedings.  Under the law governing at the time of Vartelas' plea, an alien in his situation could travel abroad for brief periods without jeopardizing his resident alien status.  See 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13) (1988 ed.), as construed in Rosenberg v. Fleuti, 374 U. S. 449 (1963).
     In 1996, Congress enacted the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), 110 Stat. 3009-546.  That Act effectively precluded foreign travel by lawful permanent residents who had a conviction like Vartelas'.  Under IIRIRA, such aliens, on return from a sojourn abroad, however brief, may be permanently removed from the United States.  See 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13)(C)(v); §1182(a)(2).
     This case presents a question of retroactivity not addressed by Congress: As to a lawful permanent resident convicted of a crime before the effective date of IIRIRA, which regime governs, the one in force at the time of the conviction, or IIRIRA?  If the former, Vartelas' brief trip abroad would not disturb his lawful permanent resident status.  If the latter, he may be denied reentry.  We conclude that the relevant provision of IIRIRA, §1101(a)(13)(C)(v), attached a new disability (denial of reentry) in respect to past events (Vartelas' pre-IIRIRA offense, plea, and conviction).  Guided by the deeply rooted presumption against retroactive legislation, we hold that §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) does not apply to Vartelas' conviction.  The impact of Vartelas' brief travel abroad on his permanent resident status is therefore determined not by IIRIRA, but by the legal regime in force at the time of his conviction.
I
A
     Before IIRIRA's passage, United States immigration law established "two types of proceedings in which aliens can be denied the hospitality of the United States: deportation hearings and exclusion hearings."  Landon v. Plasencia, 459 U. S. 21, 25 (1982).  Exclusion hearings were held for certain aliens seeking entry to the United States, and deportation hearings were held for certain aliens who had already entered this country.  See ibid.
     Under this regime, "entry" into the United States was defined as "any coming of an alien into the United States, from a foreign port or place."  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13) (1988 ed.).  The statute, however, provided an exception for lawful permanent residents; aliens lawfully residing here were not regarded as making an "entry" if their "departure to a foreign port or place . . . was not intended or reasonably to be expected by [them] or [their] presence in a foreign port or place . . . was not voluntary."  Ibid.  Interpreting this cryptic provision, we held in Fleuti, 374 U. S., at 461-462, that Congress did not intend to exclude aliens long resident in the United States upon their return from "innocent, casual, and brief excursion[s] . . . outside this country's borders."  Instead, the Court determined, Congress meant to rank a once-permanent resident as a new entrant only when the foreign excursion "meaningfully interrupt[ed] . . . the alien's [U. S.] residence."  Id., at 462.  Absent such "disrupti[on]" of the alien's residency, the alien would not be "subject . . . to the consequences of an 'entry' into the country on his return."  Ibid.1
     In IIRIRA, Congress abolished the distinction between exclusion and deportation procedures and created a uniform proceeding known as "removal."  See 8 U. S. C. §§1229, 1229a; Judulang v. Holder, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 1-2).  Congress made "admission" the key word, and defined admission to mean "the lawful entry of the alien into the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer."  §1101(a)(13)(A).  This alteration, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) determined, superseded Fleuti.  See In re Collado-Munoz, 21 I. & N. Dec. 1061, 1065-1066 (1998) (en banc).2  Thus, lawful permanent residents returning post-IIRIRA, like Vartelas, may be required to " 'see[k] an admission' into the United States, without regard to whether the alien's departure from the United States might previously have been ranked as 'brief, casual, and innocent' under the Fleuti doctrine."  Id., at 1066.
     An alien seeking "admission" to the United States is subject to various requirements, see, e.g., §1181(a), and cannot gain entry if she is deemed "inadmissible" on any of the numerous grounds set out in the immigration statutes, see §1182.  Under IIRIRA, lawful permanent residents are regarded as seeking admission into the United States if they fall into any of six enumerated categories.  §1101(a)(13)(C).  Relevant here, the fifth of these categories covers aliens who "ha[ve] committed an offense identified in section 1182(a)(2) of this title."  §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  Offenses in this category include "a crime involving moral turpitude (other than a purely political offense) or an attempt or conspiracy to commit such a crime."  §1182(a)(2)(A)(i).
     In sum, before IIRIRA, lawful permanent residents who had committed a crime of moral turpitude could, under the Fleuti doctrine, return from brief trips abroad without applying for admission to the United States.  Under IIRIRA, such residents are subject to admission procedures, and, potentially, to removal from the United States on grounds of inadmissibility.3
B
     Panagis Vartelas, born and raised in Greece, has resided in the United States for over 30 years.  Originally admitted on a student visa issued in 1979, Vartelas became a lawful permanent resident in 1989.  He currently lives in the New York area and works as a sales manager for a roofing company.
     In 1992, Vartelas opened an auto body shop in Queens, New York.  One of his business partners used the shop's photocopier to make counterfeit travelers' checks.  Vartelas helped his partner perforate the sheets into individual checks, but Vartelas did not sell the checks or receive any money from the venture.  In 1994, he pleaded guilty to conspiracy to make or possess counterfeit securities, in violation of 18 U. S. C. §371.  He was sentenced to four months' incarceration, followed by two years' supervised release.
     Vartelas regularly traveled to Greece to visit his aging parents in the years after his 1994 conviction; even after the passage of IIRIRA in 1996, his return to the United States from these visits remained uneventful.  In January 2003, however, when Vartelas returned from a week-long trip to Greece, an immigration officer classified him as an alien seeking "admission."  The officer based this classification on Vartelas' 1994 conviction.  See United States ex rel. Volpe v. Smith, 289 U. S. 422, 423 (1933) (counterfeiting ranks as a crime of moral turpitude).
     At Vartelas' removal proceedings, his initial attorney conceded removability, and requested discretionary relief from removal under the former §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).  See 8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.) (repealed 1996).  This attorney twice failed to appear for hearings and once failed to submit a requested brief.  Vartelas engaged a new attorney, who continued to concede removability and to request discretionary relief.  The Immigration Judge denied the request for relief, and ordered Vartelas removed to Greece.  The BIA affirmed the Immigration Judge's decision.
     In July 2008, Vartelas filed with the BIA a timely motion to reopen the removal proceedings, alleging that his previous attorneys were ineffective for, among other lapses, conceding his removability.  He sought to withdraw the concession of removability on the ground that IIRIRA's new "admission" provision, codified at §1101(a)(13), did not reach back to deprive him of lawful resident status based on his pre-IIRIRA conviction.  The BIA denied the motion, declaring that Vartelas had not been prejudiced by his lawyers' performance, for no legal authority prevented the application of IIRIRA to Vartelas' pre-IIRIRA conduct.
     The U. S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the BIA's decision, agreeing that Vartelas had failed to show he was prejudiced by his attorneys' allegedly ineffective performance.  Rejecting Vartelas' argument that IIRIRA operated prospectively and therefore did not govern his case, the Second Circuit reasoned that he had not relied on the prior legal regime at the time he committed the disqualifying crime.  See 620 F. 3d 108, 118-120 (2010).
     In so ruling, the Second Circuit created a split with two other Circuits.  The Fourth and Ninth Circuits have held that the new §1101(a)(13) may not be applied to lawful permanent residents who committed crimes listed in §1182 (among them, crimes of moral turpitude) prior to IIRIRA's enactment.  See Olatunji v. Ashcroft, 387 F. 3d 383 (CA4 2004); Camins v. Gonzales, 500 F. 3d 872 (CA9 2007).  We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. ___ (2011), to resolve the conflict among the Circuits.
II
     As earlier explained, see supra, at 2-4, pre-IIRIRA, a resident alien who once committed a crime of moral turpitude could travel abroad for short durations without jeopardizing his status as a lawful permanent resident.  Under IIRIRA, on return from foreign travel, such an alien is treated as a new arrival to our shores, and may be removed from the United States.  Vartelas does not question Congress' authority to restrict reentry in this manner.  Nor does he contend that Congress could not do so retroactively.  Instead, he invokes the principle against retroactive legislation, under which courts read laws as prospective in application unless Congress has unambiguously instructed retroactivity.  See Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 263 (1994).
     The presumption against retroactive legislation, the Court recalled in Landgraf, "embodies a legal doctrine centuries older than our Republic."  Id., at 265.  Several provisions of the Constitution, the Court noted, embrace the doctrine, among them, the Ex Post Facto Clause, the Contract Clause, and the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause.  Id., at 266.  Numerous decisions of this Court repeat the classic formulation Justice Story penned for determining when retrospective application of a law would collide with the doctrine.  It would do so, Story stated, when such application would "tak[e] away or impai[r] vested rights acquired under existing laws, or creat[e] a new obligation, impos[e] a new duty, or attac[h] a new disability, in respect to transactions or considerations already past."  Society for Propagation of Gospel v. Wheeler, 22 F. Cas. 756, 767 (No. 13,156) (CC NH 1814).  See, e.g., INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 321 (2001) (invoking Story's formulation); Hughes Aircraft Co. v. United States ex rel. Schumer, 520 U. S. 939, 947 (1997); Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 283.4
     Vartelas urges that applying IIRIRA to him, rather than the law that existed at the time of his conviction, would attach a "new disability," effectively a ban on travel outside the United States, "in respect to [events] . . . already past," i.e., his offense, guilty plea, conviction, and punishment,  all occurring prior to the passage of IIRIRA.  In evaluating Vartelas' argument, we note first a matter not disputed by the Government:  Congress did not expressly prescribe the temporal reach of the IIRIRA provision in question, 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13).  See Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 280 (Court asks first "whether Congress has expressly prescribed [new §1101(a)(13)'s] proper reach"); Brief for Respondent 11 (Court's holding in INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 317-320, "compels the conclusion that Congress has not 'expressly prescribed the statute's proper reach' " (quoting Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 280)).5  Several other provisions of IIRIRA, in contrast to §1101(a)(13), expressly direct retroactive application, e.g., 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) (IIRIRA's amendment of the "aggravated felony" definition applies expressly to "conviction[s] . . . entered before, on, or after" the statute's enactment date (internal quotation marks omitted)).  See St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 319-320, and n. 43 (setting out further examples).  Accordingly, we proceed to the dispositive question whether, as Vartelas maintains, application of IIRIRA's travel restraint to him "would have retroactive effect" Congress did not authorize.  See Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 280.
     Vartelas presents a firm case for application of the antiretroactivity principle.  Neither his sentence, nor the immigration law in effect when he was convicted and sentenced, blocked him from occasional visits to his parents in Greece.  Current §1101(a)(13)(C)(v), if applied to him, would thus attach "a new disability" to conduct over and done well before the provision's enactment.
     Beyond genuine doubt, we note, the restraint §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) places on lawful permanent residents like Vartelas ranks as a "new disability."  Once able to journey abroad to fulfill religious obligations, attend funerals and weddings of family members, tend to vital financial interests, or respond to family emergencies, permanent residents situated as Vartelas is now face potential banishment.  We have several times recognized the severity of that sanction.  See, e.g., Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 8-9, 16).
     It is no answer to say, as the Government suggests, that Vartelas could have avoided any adverse consequences if he simply stayed at home in the United States, his residence for 24 years prior to his 2003 visit to his parents in Greece.  See Brief in Opposition 13 (Vartelas "could have avoided the application of the statute . . . [by] refrain[ing] from departing from the United States (or from returning to the United States)."); post, at 3.  Loss of the ability to travel abroad is itself a harsh penalty,6 made all the more devastating if it means enduring separation from close family members living abroad.  See Brief for Asian American Justice Center et al. as Amici Curiae 16-23 (describing illustrative cases).  We have rejected arguments for retroactivity in similar cases, and in cases in which the loss at stake was less momentous.
     In Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536 (1884), a pathmarking decision, the Court confronted the "Chinese Restriction Act," which barred Chinese laborers from reentering the United States without a certificate issued on their departure.  The Court held the reentry bar inapplicable to aliens who had left the country prior to the Act's passage and tried to return afterward without a certificate.  The Act's text, the Court observed, was not "so clear and positive as to leave no room to doubt [retroactive application] was the intention of the legislature."  Id., at 559.
     In Landgraf, the question was whether an amendment to Title VII's ban on employment discrimination authorizing compensatory and punitive damages applied to pre-enactment conduct.  The Court held it did not.  No doubt the complaint against the employer charged discrimination that violated the Act at the time it occurred.  But compensatory and punitive damages were not then available remedies.  The later provision for such damages, the Court determined, operated prospectively only, and did not apply to employers whose discriminatory conduct occurred prior to the amendment.  See 511 U. S., at 280-286.  And in Hughes Aircraft, the Court held that a provision removing an affirmative defense to qui tam suits did not apply to pre-enactment fraud.  As in Landgraf, the provision attached "a new disability" to past wrongful conduct and therefore could not apply retrospectively unless Congress clearly manifested such an intention.  Hughes Aircraft, 520 U. S., at 946-950.
     Most recently, in St. Cyr, the Court took up the case of an alien who had entered a plea to a deportable offense.  At the time of the plea, the alien was eligible for discretionary relief from deportation.  IIRIRA, enacted after entry of the plea, removed that eligibility.  The Court held that the IIRIRA provision in point could not be applied to the alien, for it attached a "new disability" to the guilty plea and Congress had not instructed such a result.  533 U. S., at 321-323.
III
     The Government, echoed in part by the dissent, argues that no retroactive effect is involved in this case, for the Legislature has not attached any disability to past conduct.  Rather, it has made the relevant event the alien's post-IIRIRA act of returning to the United States.  See Brief for Respondent 19-20; post, at 3.  We find this argument disingenuous.  Vartelas' return to the United States occasioned his treatment as a new entrant, but the reason for the "new disability" imposed on him was not his lawful foreign travel.  It was, indeed, his conviction, pre-IIRIRA, of an offense qualifying as one of moral turpitude.  That past misconduct, in other words, not present travel, is the wrongful activity Congress targeted in §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).
     The Government observes that lower courts have upheld Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act prosecutions that encompassed pre-enactment conduct.  See Brief for Respondent 18 (citing United States v. Brown, 555 F. 2d 407, 416-417 (CA5 1977), and United States v. Campanale, 518 F. 2d 352, 364-365 (CA9 1975) (per curiam)).  But those prosecutions depended on criminal activity, i.e., an act of racketeering occuring after the provision's effective date.  Section 1101(a)(13)(C)(v), in contrast, does not require any showing of criminal conduct postdating IIRIRA's enactment.
     Fernandez-Vargas v. Gonzales, 548 U. S. 30 (2006), featured by the Government and the dissent, Brief for Respondent 17, 36-37; post, at 3, is similarly inapposite.  That case involved 8 U. S. C. §1231(a)(5), an IIRIRA addition, which provides that an alien who reenters the United States after having been removed can be removed again under the same removal order.  We held that the provision could be applied to an alien who reentered illegally before IIRIRA's enactment.  Explaining the Court's decision, we said: "[T]he conduct of remaining in the country . . . is the predicate action; the statute applies to stop an indefinitely continuing violation . . . .  It is therefore the alien's choice to continue his illegal presence . . . after the effective date of the new la[w] that subjects him to the new . . . legal regime, not a past act that he is helpless to undo."  548 U. S., at 44 (emphasis added).  Vartelas, we have several times stressed, engaged in no criminal activity after IIRIRA's passage.  He simply took a brief trip to Greece, anticipating a return without incident as in past visits to his parents.  No "indefinitely continuing" crime occurred; instead, Vartelas was apprehended because of a pre-IIRIRA crime he was "helpless to undo."  Ibid.
     The Government further refers to lower court decisions in cases involving 18 U. S. C. §922(g), which prohibits the possession of firearms by convicted felons.  Brief for Respondent 18-19 (citing United States v. Pfeifer, 371 F. 3d 430, 436 (CA8 2004), and United States v. Hemmings, 258 F. 3d 587, 594 (CA7 2001)).  "[L]ongstanding prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons," District of Columbia v. Heller, 554 U. S. 570, 626 (2008), however, target a present danger, i.e., the danger posed by felons who bear arms.  See, e.g., Pfeifer, 371 F. 3d, at 436 (hazardous conduct that statute targets "occurred after enactment of the statute"); Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, §1201, 82 Stat. 236 (noting hazards involved when felons possess firearms).7
     Nor do recidivism sentencing enhancements support the Government's position.  Enhanced punishment imposed for the later offense " 'is not to be viewed as . . . [an] additional penalty for the earlier crimes,' but instead, as a 'stiffened penalty for the latest crime, which is considered to be an aggravated offense because [it is] a repetitive one.' "  Witte v. United States, 515 U. S. 389, 400 (1995) (quoting Gryger v. Burke, 334 U. S. 728, 732 (1948)).  In Vartelas' case, however, there is no "aggravated . . . repetitive" offense.  There is, in contrast, no post-IIRIRA criminal offense at all.  Vartelas' travel abroad and return are "innocent" acts, see Fleuti, 374 U. S., at 462, burdened only because of his pre-IIRIRA offense.
     In sum, Vartelas' brief trip abroad post-IIRIRA involved no criminal infraction.  IIRIRA disabled him from leaving the United States and returning as a lawful permanent resident.  That new disability rested not on any continuing criminal activity, but on a single crime committed years before IIRIRA's enactment.  The antiretroactivity principle instructs against application of the new proscription to render Vartelas a first-time arrival at the country's gateway.
IV
     The Second Circuit homed in on the words "committed an offense" in §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) in determining that the change IIRIRA wrought had no retroactive effect.  620 F. 3d, at 119-121.  It matters not that Vartelas may have relied on the prospect of continuing visits to Greece in deciding to plead guilty, the court reasoned.  "[I]t would border on the absurd," the court observed, "to suggest that Vartelas committed his counterfeiting crime in reliance on the immigration laws."  Id., at 120.  This reasoning is doubly flawed.
     As the Government acknowledges, "th[is] Court has not required a party challenging the application of a statute to show [he relied on prior law] in structuring his conduct."  Brief for Respondent 25-26.  In Landgraf, for example, the issue was the retroactivity of compensatory and punitive damages as remedies for employment discrimination.  "[C]oncerns of . . . upsetting expectations are attenuated in the case of intentional employment discrimination," the Court noted, for such discrimination "has been unlawful for more than a generation."  511 U. S., at 282, n. 35.  But "[e]ven when the conduct in question is morally reprehensible or illegal," the Court added, "a degree of unfairness is inherent whenever the law imposes additional burdens based on conduct that occurred in the past."  Id., at 283, n. 35.  And in Hughes Aircraft, the Court found that Congress' 1986 removal of a defense to a qui tam action did not apply to pre-1986 conduct in light of the presumption against retroactivity.  520 U. S., at 941-942.8  As in Landgraf, the relevant conduct (submitting a false claim) had been unlawful for decades.  See 520 U. S., at 947.
     The operative presumption, after all, is that Congress intends its laws to govern prospectively only.  See supra, at 7.  "It is a strange 'presumption,' " the Third Circuit commented, "that arises only on . . . a showing [of] actual reliance."  Ponnapula v. Ashcroft, 373 F. 3d 480, 491 (2004).  The essential inquiry, as stated in Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 269-270, is "whether the new provision attaches new legal consequences to events completed before its enactment."  That is just what occurred here.
     In any event, Vartelas likely relied on then-existing immigration law.  While the presumption against retroactive application of statutes does not require a showing of detrimental reliance, see Olatunji, 387 F. 3d, at 389-395, reasonable reliance has been noted among the "familiar considerations" animating the presumption, see Landgraf, 511 U. S., at 270 (presumption reflects "familiar considerations of fair notice, reasonable reliance, and settled expectations").  Although not a necessary predicate for invoking the antiretroactivity principle, the likelihood of reliance on prior law strengthens the case for reading a newly enacted law prospectively.  See Olatunji, 387 F. 3d, at 393 (discussing St. Cyr).
     St. Cyr is illustrative.  That case involved a lawful permanent resident who pleaded guilty to a criminal charge that made him deportable.  Under the immigration law in effect when he was convicted, he would have been eligible to apply for a waiver of deportation.  But his removal proceeding was commenced after Congress, in IIRIRA, withdrew that dispensation.  Disallowance of discretionary waivers, the Court recognized, "attache[d] a new disability, in respect to transactions or considerations already past."  533 U. S., at 321 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Aliens like St. Cyr, the Court observed, "almost certainly relied upon th[e] likelihood [of receiving discretionary relief] in deciding [to plead guilty, thereby] forgo[ing] their right to a trial."  Id., at 325.9  Hence, applying the IIRIRA withdrawal to St. Cyr would have an "obvious and severe retroactive effect."  Ibid.  Because Congress made no such intention plain, ibid., n. 55, we held that the prior law, permitting relief from deportation, governed St. Cyr's case.
     As to retroactivity, one might think Vartelas' case even easier than St. Cyr's.  St. Cyr could seek the Attorney General's discretionary dispensation.  Vartelas, under Fleuti, was free, without seeking an official's permission, to make trips of short duration to see and assist his parents in Greece.10  The Second Circuit thought otherwise, compounding its initial misperception (treating reliance as essential to application of the antiretroactivity principle).  The deportation provision involved in St. Cyr, 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3), referred to the alien's "convict[ion]" of a crime, while the statutory words sub judice in Vartelas' case were "committed an offense."  §1101(a)(13)(C)(v); see supra, at 12-13.11  The practical difference, so far as retroactivity is concerned, escapes from our grasp.  Ordinarily, to determine whether there is clear and convincing evidence that an alien has committed a qualifying crime, the immigration officer at the border would check the alien's records for a conviction.  He would not call into session a piepowder court12  to entertain a plea or conduct a trial.
     Satisfied that Vartelas' case is at least as clear as St. Cyr's for declining to apply a new law retroactively, we hold that Fleuti continues to govern Vartelas' short-term travel.
*  *  *
     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Scalia, J., dissenting
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 10-1211
PANAGIS VARTELAS, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit
[March 28, 2012]

     Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.
     As part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), Congress required that lawful permanent residents who have committed certain crimes seek formal "admission" when they return to the United States from abroad.  8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  This case presents a straightforward question of statutory interpretation: Does that statute apply to lawful permanent residents who, like Vartelas, committed one of the specified offenses before 1996, but traveled abroad after 1996?  Under the proper approach to determining a statute's temporal application, the answer is yes.
I
     The text of §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) does not contain a clear statement answering the question presented here.  So the Court is correct that this case is governed by our longstanding interpretive principle that, in the absence of a contrary indication, a statute will not be construed to have retroactive application.  See, e.g., Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 280 (1994).  The operative provision of this text--the provision that specifies the act that it prohibits or prescribes--says that lawful permanent residents convicted of offenses similar to Vartelas's must seek formal "admission" before they return to the United States from abroad.  Since Vartelas returned to the United States after the statute's effective date, the application of that text to his reentry does not give the statute a retroactive effect.
     In determining whether a statute applies retroactively, we should concern ourselves with the statute's actual operation on regulated parties, not with retroactivity as an abstract concept or as a substitute for fairness concerns.  It is impossible to decide whether a statute's application is retrospective or prospective without first identifying a reference point--a moment in time to which the statute's effective date is either subsequent or antecedent.  (Otherwise, the obvious question--retroactive in reference to what?--remains unanswered.)  In my view, the identity of that reference point turns on the activity a statute is intended to regulate.  For any given regulated party, the reference point (or "retroactivity event") is the moment at which the party does what the statute forbids or fails to do what it requires.  See Martin v. Hadix, 527 U. S. 343, 362-363 (1999) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); Landgraf, supra, at 291 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgments).  With an identified reference point, the retroactivity analysis is simple.  If a person has engaged in the primary regulated activity before the statute's effective date, then the statute's application would be retroactive.  But if a person engages in the primary regulated activity after the statute's effective date, then the statute's application is prospective only.  In the latter case, the interpretive presumption against retroactivity does not bar the statute's application.
     Under that commonsense approach, this is a relatively easy case.  Although the class of aliens affected by §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) is defined with respect to past crimes, the regulated activity is reentry into the United States.  By its terms, the statute is all about controlling admission at the border.  It specifies six criteria to identify lawful permanent residents who are subject to formal "admission" procedures, most of which relate to the circumstances of departure, the trip itself, or reentry.  The titles of the statutory sections containing §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) confirm its focus on admission, rather than crime: The provision is located within Title III of IIRIRA ("Inspection, Apprehension, Detention, Adjudication, and Removal of Inadmissible and Deportable Aliens"), under Subtitle A ("Revision of Procedures for Removal of Aliens"), and §301 ("Treating Persons Present in the United States Without Authorization as Not Admitted").  110 Stat. 3009-575.  And the specific subsection of IIRIRA at issue (§301(a), entitled " 'Admission' Defined") is an amendment to the definition of "entry" in the general "Definitions" section of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).  See ante, at 2-3.  The original provision told border officials how to regulate admission--not how to punish crime--and the amendment does as well.
      Section 1101(a)(13)(C)(v) thus has no retroactive effect on Vartelas because the reference point here--Vartelas's readmission to the United States after a trip abroad--occurred years after the statute's effective date.  Although Vartelas cannot change the fact of his prior conviction, he could have avoided entirely the consequences of §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) by simply remaining in the United States or, having left, remaining in Greece.  That §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) had no effect on Vartelas until he performed a post-enactment activity is a clear indication that the statute's application is purely prospective.  See Fernandez-Vargas v. Gonzales, 548 U. S. 30, 45, n. 11, 46 (2006) (no retroactive effect where the statute in question did "not operate on a completed preenactment act" and instead turned on "a failure to take timely action that would have avoided application of the new law altogether").
II
     The Court avoids this conclusion by insisting that "[p]ast misconduct, . . . not present travel, is the wrongful activity Congress targeted" in §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  Ante, at 11.  That assertion does not, however, have any basis in the statute's text or structure, and the Court does not pretend otherwise.  Instead, the Court simply asserts that Vartelas's "lawful foreign travel" surely could not be the "reason for the 'new disability' imposed on him."  Ibid. (emphasis added).  But the reason for a prohibition has nothing to do with whether the prohibition is being applied to a past rather than a future act.  It may be relevant to other legal inquiries--for example, to whether a legislative act violates one of the Ex Post Facto Clauses in Article I, see, e.g., Smith v. Doe, 538 U. S. 84, 92 (2003), or one of the Due Process Clauses in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, see, e.g., Williamson v. Lee Optical of Okla., Inc., 348 U. S. 483, 487 (1955), or the Takings Clause in the Fifth Amendment, see, e.g., Kelo v. New London, 545 U. S. 469, 477-483 (2005), or the Obligation of Contracts Clause in Article I, see, e.g., United States Trust Co. of N. Y. v. New Jersey, 431 U. S. 1, 29 (1977).  But it has no direct bearing upon whether the statute is retroactive.*
     The Court's failure to differentiate between the statutory-interpretation question (whether giving certain effect to a provision would make it retroactive and hence presumptively unintended) and the validity question (whether giving certain effect to a provision is unlawful) is on full display in its attempts to distinguish §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) from similar statutes.  Take, for example, the Court's discussion of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).  That Act, which targets "patterns of racketeering," expressly defines those "patterns" to include some pre-enactment conduct.  See 18 U. S. C. §1961(5).  Courts interpreting RICO therefore need not consider the presumption against retroactivity; instead, the cases cited by the majority consider whether RICO violates the Ex Post Facto Clause.  See United States v. Brown, 555 F. 2d 407, 416-417 (CA5 1977); United States v. Campanale, 518 F. 2d 352, 364-365 (CA9 1975) (per curiam).  The Government recognized this distinction and cited RICO to make a point about the Ex Post Facto Clause rather than the presumption against retroactivity, Brief for Respondent 17-18; the Court evidently does not.
     The Court's confident assertion that Congress surely would not have meant this statute to apply to Vartelas, whose foreign travel and subsequent return to the United States were innocent events, ante, at 11, 14, simply begs the question presented in this case.  Ignorance, of course, is no excuse (ignorantia legis neminem excusat); and his return was entirely lawful only if the statute before us did not render it unlawful.  Since IIRIRA's effective date in 1996, lawful permanent residents who have committed crimes of moral turpitude are forbidden to leave the United States and return without formally seeking "admission."  See §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  As a result, Vartelas's numerous trips abroad and "uneventful" reentries into the United States after the passage of IIRIRA, see ante, at 5, were lawful only if §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) does not apply to him--which is, of course, precisely the matter in dispute here.
     The Court's circular reasoning betrays its underlying concern: Because the Court believes that reentry after a brief trip abroad should be lawful, it will decline to apply a statute that clearly provides otherwise for certain criminal aliens.  (The same instinct likely produced the Court's questionable statutory interpretation in Rosenberg v. Fleuti, 374 U. S. 449 (1963).)  The Court's test for retroactivity--asking whether the statute creates a "new disability" in "respect to past events"--invites this focus on fairness.  Understandably so, since it is derived from a Justice Story opinion interpreting a provision of the New Hampshire Constitution that forbade retroactive laws--a provision comparable to the Federal Constitution's ex post facto prohibition and bearing no relation to the presumption against retroactivity.  What is unfair or irrational (and hence should be forbidden) has nothing to do with whether applying a statute to a particular act is prospective (and thus presumptively intended) or retroactive (and thus presumptively unintended).  On the latter question, the "new disability in respect to past events" test provides no meaningful guidance.
     I can imagine countless laws that, like §1101(a)(13) (C)(v), impose "new disabilities" related to "past events" and yet do not operate retroactively.  For example, a statute making persons convicted of drug crimes ineligible for student loans.  See, e.g., 20 U. S. C. §1091(r)(1).  Or laws prohibiting those convicted of sex crimes from working in certain jobs that involve repeated contact with minors.  See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Ann. §290.95(c) (West Supp. 2012).  Or laws prohibiting those previously committed for mental instability from purchasing guns.  See, e.g., 18 U. S. C. §922(g)(4).  The Court concedes that it would not consider the last two laws inapplicable to pre-enactment convictions or commitments.  Ante, at 12, n. 7.  The Court does not deny that these statutes impose a "new disability in respect to past events," but it distinguishes them based on the reason for their enactment: These statutes "address dangers that arise postenactment."  Ante, at 13, n. 7.  So much for the new-disability-in-respect-to-past-events test; it has now become a new-disability-not-designed-to-guard-against-future-danger test.  But why is guarding against future danger the only reason Congress may wish to regulate future action in light of past events?  It obviously is not.  So the Court must invent yet another doctrine to address my first example, the law making persons convicted of drug crimes ineligible for student loans.  According to the Court, that statute differs from §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) because it "has a prospective thrust."  Ante, at 13, n. 7.  I cannot imagine what that means, other than that the statute regulates post-enactment conduct.  But, of course, so does §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).  Rather than reconciling any of these distinctions with Justice Story's formulation of retroactivity, the Court leaves to lower courts the unenviable task of identifying new-disabilities-not-designed-to-guard-against-future-danger-and-also-lacking-a-prospective-thrust.
     And anyway, is there any doubt that §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) is intended to guard against the "dangers that arise postenactment" from having aliens in our midst who have shown themselves to have proclivity for crime?  Must that be rejected as its purpose simply because Congress has not sought to achieve it by all possible means--by ferreting out such dangerous aliens and going through the expensive and lengthy process of deporting them?  At least some of the post-enactment danger can readily be eliminated by forcing lawful permanent residents who have committed certain crimes to undergo formal "admission" procedures at our borders.  Indeed, by limiting criminal aliens' opportunities to travel and then return to the United States, §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) may encourage self-deportation.  But all this is irrelevant.  The positing of legislative "purpose" is always a slippery enterprise compared to the simple determination of whether a statute regulates a future event--and it is that, rather than the Court's pronouncement of some forward-looking reason, which governs whether a statute has retroactive effect.
     Finally, I cannot avoid observing that even if the Court's concern about the fairness or rationality of applying §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) to Vartelas were relevant to the statutory interpretation question, that concern is greatly exaggerated.  In disregard of a federal statute, convicted criminal Vartelas repeatedly traveled to and from Greece without ever seeking formal admission at this country's borders.  When he was finally unlucky enough to be apprehended, and sought discretionary relief from removal under former §212(c) of the INA, 8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.), the Immigration Judge denying his application found that Vartelas had made frequent trips to Greece and had remained there for long periods of time, that he was "a serious tax evader," that he had offered testimony that was "close to incredible," and that he had not shown hardship to himself or his estranged wife and children should he be removed.  See 620 F. 3d 108, 111 (CA2 2010); Brief for Respondent 5 (internal quotation marks omitted).  In decrying the "harsh penalty" imposed by this statute on Vartelas, the Court ignores those inconvenient facts.  Ante, at 9.  But never mind.  Under any sensible approach to the presumption against retroactivity, these factual subtleties should be irrelevant to the temporal application of §1101(a)(13)(C)(v).
*  *  *
     This case raises a plain-vanilla question of statutory interpretation, not broader questions about frustrated expectations or fairness.  Our approach to answering that question should be similarly straightforward: We should determine what relevant activity the statute regulates (here, reentry); absent a clear statement otherwise, only such relevant activity which occurs after the statute's effective date should be covered (here, post-1996 reentries).  If, as so construed, the statute is unfair or irrational enough to violate the Constitution, that is another matter entirely, and one not presented here.  Our interpretive presumption against retroactivity, however, is just that--a tool to ascertain what the statute means, not a license to rewrite the statute in a way the Court considers more desirable.
     I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 The dissent appears driven, in no small measure, by its dim view of the Court's opinion in Fleuti.  See post, at 6 ("same instinct" operative in Fleuti and this case).
Footnote 2 The BIA determined that the Fleuti doctrine no longer held sway because it was rooted in the "no longer existent definition of 'entry' in [the INA]."  21 I. & N. Dec., at 1065.  The Board also noted that "Congress . . . amended the law to expressly preserve some, but not all, of the Fleuti doctrine" when it provided that a lawful permanent resident absent from the United States for less than 180 days would not be regarded as seeking an admission except in certain enumerated circumstances, among them, prior commission of a crime of moral turpitude.  See ibid. (citing 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(13)(C)(ii)).
     Vartelas does not challenge the ruling in Collado-Munoz.  We therefore assume, but do not decide, that IIRIRA's amendments to §1101(a)(13)(A) abrogated Fleuti.
Footnote 3 Although IIRIRA created a uniform removal procedure for both excludable and deportable aliens, the list of criminal offenses that subject aliens to exclusion remains separate from the list of offenses that render an alien deportable.  These lists are "sometimes overlapping and sometimes divergent."  Judulang v. Holder, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 2).  Pertinent here, although a single crime involving moral turpitude may render an alien inadmissible, it would not render her deportable.  See 8 U. S. C. §1182(a)(2) (listing excludable crimes); §1227(a)(2) (listing deportable crimes).
Footnote 4 The dissent asserts that Justice Story's opinion "bear[s] no relation to the presumption against retroactivity."  Post, at 6.  That is a bold statement in view of this Court's many references to Justice Story's formulation in cases involving the presumption that statutes operate only prospectively in the absence of a clear congressional statement to the contrary.
Footnote 5 In St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 317-320, we rejected the Government's contention that Congress directed retroactive application of IIRIRA in its entirety.
Footnote 6 See Kent v. Dulles, 357 U. S. 116, 126 (1958) ("Freedom of movement across frontiers . . . may be as close to the heart of the individual as the choice of what he eats, or wears, or reads."); Aptheker v. Secretary of State, 378 U. S. 500, 519-520 (1964) (Douglas, J., concurring) (right to travel, "at home and abroad, is important for . . . business[,] . . . cultural, political, and social activities--for all the commingling which gregarious man enjoys").
Footnote 7 The dissent, see post, at 6, notes two statutes of the same genre: laws prohibiting persons convicted of a sex crime against a victim under 16 years of age from working in jobs involving frequent contact with minors, and laws prohibiting a person "who has been adjudicated as a mental defective or who has been committed to a mental institution" from possessing guns, 18 U. S. C. §922(g)(4).  The dissent is correct that these statutes do not operate retroactively.  Rather, they address dangers that arise postenactment: sex offenders with a history of child molestation working in close proximity to children, and mentally unstable persons purchasing guns.  The act of flying to Greece, in contrast, does not render a lawful permanent resident like Vartelas hazardous.  Nor is it plausible that Congress' solution to the problem of dangerous lawful permanent residents would be to pass a law that would deter such persons from ever leaving the United States.
     As for student loans, it is unlikely that the provision noted by the dissent, 20 U. S. C. §1091(r), would raise retroactivity questions in the first place.  The statute has a prospective thrust.  It concerns "[s]uspension of eligibility" when a student receiving a college loan commits a drug crime.  The suspension runs "from the date of th[e] conviction" for specified periods, e.g., two years for a second offense of possession.  Moreover, eligibility may be restored before the period of ineligibility ends if the student establishes, under prescribed criteria, his rehabilitation.
Footnote 8 The deleted defense permitted qui tam defendants to escape liability if the information on which a private plaintiff (relator) relied was already in the Government's possession.  Detrimental reliance was hardly apparent, for the Government, both before and after the statutory change, could bring suit with that information, and "the monetary liability faced by [a False Claims Act] defendant is the same whether the action is brought by the Government or by a qui tam relator."  520 U. S., at 948.
Footnote 9 "There can be little doubt," the Court noted in St. Cyr, "that, as a general matter, alien defendants considering whether to enter into a plea agreement are acutely aware of the immigration consequences of their convictions."  533 U. S., at 322.  Indeed, "[p]reserving [their] right to remain in the United States may be more important to [them] than any potential jail sentence."  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  See Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 9-11) (holding that counsel has a duty under the Sixth Amendment to inform a noncitizen defendant that his plea would make him eligible for deportation).
Footnote 10 Armed with knowledge that a guilty plea would preclude travel abroad, aliens like Vartelas might endeavor to negotiate a plea to a nonexcludable offense--in Vartelas' case, e.g., possession of counterfeit securities--or exercise a right to trial.
Footnote 11 After the words "committed an offense," §1101(a)(13)(C)(v)'s next words are "identified in section 1182(a)(2)."  That section refers to "any alien convicted of, or who admits having committed," inter alia, "a crime involving moral turpitude."  §1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I) (emphasis added).  The entire §1101(a)(13)(C)(v) phrase "committed an offense identified in section 1182(a)(2)," on straightforward reading, appears to advert to a lawful permanent resident who has been convicted of an offense under §1182(a)(2) (or admits to one).
Footnote 12 Piepowder ("dusty feet") courts were temporary mercantile courts held at trade fairs in Medieval Europe; local merchants and guild members would assemble to hear commercial disputes.  These courts provided fast and informal resolution of trade conflicts, settling cases "while the merchants' feet were still dusty."  Callahan, Medieval Church Norms and Fiduciary Duties in Partnership, 26 Cardozo L. Rev. 215, 235, and n. 99 (2004) (internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting H. Berman, Law and Revolution: The Formation of the Western Legal Tradition 347 (1983)).
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1* I say no direct bearing because if the prospective application of a statute would raise constitutional doubts because of its effect on pre-enactment conduct, that would be a reason to presume a legislative intent not to apply it unless the conduct in question is post-enactment--that is, to consider it retroactive when the conduct in question is pre-enactment.  See Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 380-381 (2005).  That is not an issue here.  If the statute had expressly made the new "admission" rule applicable to those aliens with prior convictions, its constitutionality would not be in doubt.





United States Supreme Court
ZIVOTOFSKY, BY HIS PARENTS AND GUARDIANS, ZIVOTOFSKY ET UX. v. CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE, (2012)
No. 10-699
Argued: November 7, 2011    Decided: March 26, 2012


Petitioner Menachem Binyamin Zivotofsky was born in Jerusalem.  His mother requested that Zivotofsky's place of birth be listed as "Israel" on a consular report of birth abroad and on his passport, pursuant to §214(d) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003.  That provision states: "For purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel."  U. S. officials refused the request, citing a State Department policy that prohibits recording "Israel" as the place of birth for those born in Jerusalem.  Zivotofsky's parents filed a suit on his behalf against the Secretary of State.  The District Court dismissed the case, holding that it presented a nonjusticiable political question regarding Jerusalem's political status.  The D. C. Circuit affirmed, reasoning that the Constitution gives the Executive the exclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns, and that the exercise of that power cannot be reviewed by the courts.
Held: The political question doctrine does not bar judicial review of Zivotofsky's claim.  Pp. 5−12.
     (a) This Court has said that a controversy "involves a political question . . . where there is 'a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political department; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it.' "  Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224, 228.  The lower courts ruled that this case presents such a political question because they misunderstood the issue, assuming resolution of Zivotofsky's claim would require the Judiciary to define U. S. policy regarding the status of Jerusalem.  In fact, this case asks the courts to determine only whether Zivotofsky can vindicate his statutory right under §214(d) to choose to have Israel recorded as his place of birth on his passport.  Making such determinations is a familiar judicial exercise.  Moreover, because the parties do not dispute the interpretation of §214(d), the only real question for the courts is whether the statute is constitutional.  There is no "textually demonstrable constitutional commitment" of that question to another branch:  At least since Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, this Court has recognized that it is "emphatically the province and duty" of the Judiciary to determine the constitutionality of a statute.  Nor is there "a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving" the question: Both parties offer detailed legal arguments concerning whether the textual, structural, and historical evidence supports a determination that §214(d) is constitutional.  Pp. 5-12.
     (b) Because the lower courts erroneously concluded that the case presents a political question, they did not reach the merits of Zivotofsky's claim.  This Court is "a court of final review and not first view," Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Mineta, 534 U. S. 103, 110, and ordinarily "do[es] not decide in the first instance issues not decided below," National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v. Smith, 525 U. S. 459, 470.  The merits of this case are therefore left to the lower courts to consider in the first instance.  P. 12.
571 F. 3d 1227, vacated and remanded.
     Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Kagan, JJ., joined.  Sotomayor, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, in which Breyer, J., joined as to Part I.  Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.  Breyer, J., filed a dissenting opinion.

Opinion of the Court
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 10-699
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parentsand guardians, ARI Z. and NAOMI SIEGMANZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. HILLARYRODHAM CLINTON, SECRETARYOF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[March 26, 2012]

     Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court.
     Congress enacted a statute providing that Americans born in Jerusalem may elect to have "Israel" listed as the place of birth on their passports.  The State Department declined to follow that law, citing its longstanding policy of not taking a position on the political status of Jerusalem.  When sued by an American who invoked the statute, the Secretary of State argued that the courts lacked authority to decide the case because it presented a political question.  The Court of Appeals so held.
     We disagree.  The courts are fully capable of determining whether this statute may be given effect, or instead must be struck down in light of authority conferred on the Executive by the Constitution.
I
A
     In 2002, Congress enacted the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, 116 Stat. 1350.  Section 214 of the Act is entitled "United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel."  Id., at 1365.  The first two subsections express Congress's "commitment" to relocating the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.  Id., at 1365-1366.  The third bars funding for the publication of official Government documents that do not list Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.  Id., at 1366.  The fourth and final provision, §214(d), is the only one at stake in this case.  Entitled "Record of Place of Birth as Israel for Passport Purposes," it provides that "[f]or purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen's legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel."  Ibid.
     The State Department's Foreign Affairs Manual states that "[w]here the birthplace of the applicant is located in territory disputed by another country, the city or area of birth may be written in the passport."  7 Foreign Affairs Manual §1383.5-2, App. 108.  The manual specifically directs that passport officials should enter "JERUSALEM" and should "not write Israel or Jordan" when recording the birthplace of a person born in Jerusalem on a passport.  Id., §1383, Exh. 1383.1, App. 127; see also id., §§1383.1, 1383.5-4, .5-5, .5-6, App. 106, 108-110.
     Section 214(d) sought to override this instruction by allowing citizens born in Jerusalem to have "Israel" recorded on their passports if they wish.  In signing the Foreign Relations Authorization Act into law, President George W. Bush stated his belief that §214 "impermissibly interferes with the President's constitutional authority to conduct the Nation's foreign affairs and to supervise the unitary executive branch."  Statement on Signing the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, Public Papers of the Presidents, George W. Bush, Vol. 2, Sept. 30, 2002, p. 1698 (2005).  He added that if the section is "construed as mandatory," then it would "interfere with the President's constitutional authority to formulate the position of the United States, speak for the Nation in international affairs, and determine the terms on which recognition is given to foreign states."  Ibid.  He concluded by emphasizing that "U. S. policy regarding Jerusalem has not changed."  Ibid.  The President made no specific reference to the passport mandate in §214(d).
B
     Petitioner Menachem Binyamin Zivotofsky was born in Jerusalem on October 17, 2002, shortly after §214(d) was enacted.  Zivotofsky's parents were American citizens and he accordingly was as well, by virtue of congressional enactment.  8 U. S. C. §1401(c); see Rogers v. Bellei, 401 U. S. 815, 835 (1971) (foreign-born children of American citizens acquire citizenship at birth through "congressional generosity").  Zivotofsky's mother filed an application for a consular report of birth abroad and a United States passport.  She requested that his place of birth be listed as "Jerusalem, Israel" on both documents.  U. S. officials informed Zivotofsky's mother that State Department policy prohibits recording "Israel" as Zivotofsky's place of birth.  Pursuant to that policy, Zivotofsky was issued a passport and consular report of birth abroad listing only "Jerusalem."  App. 19-20.
     Zivotofsky's parents filed a complaint on his behalf against the Secretary of State.  Zivotofsky sought a declaratory judgment and a permanent injunction ordering the Secretary to identify his place of birth as "Jerusalem, Israel" in the official documents.  Id., at 17-18.  The District Court granted the Secretary's motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that Zivotofsky lacked standing and that his complaint presented a nonjusticiable political question.
     The Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit reversed, concluding that Zivotofsky did have standing.  It then observed that while Zivotofsky had originally asked that "Jerusalem, Israel" be recorded on his passport, "[b]oth sides agree that the question now is whether §214(d) entitles [him] to have just 'Israel' listed as his place of birth."  444 F. 3d 614, 619 (2006).  The D. C. Circuit determined that additional factual development might be helpful in deciding whether this question was justiciable, as the parties disagreed about the foreign policy implications of listing "Israel" alone as a birthplace on the passport.  Id., at 619-620.  It therefore remanded the case to the District Court.
     The District Court again found that the case was not justiciable.  It explained that "[r]esolving [Zivotofsky's] claim on the merits would necessarily require the Court to decide the political status of Jerusalem."  511 F. Supp. 2d 97, 103 (2007).  Concluding that the claim therefore presented a political question, the District Court dismissed the case for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
     The D. C. Circuit affirmed.  It reasoned that the Constitution gives the Executive the exclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns, and that the exercise of this power cannot be reviewed by the courts.  Therefore, "deciding whether the Secretary of State must mark a passport . . . as Zivotofsky requests would necessarily draw [the court] into an area of decisionmaking the Constitution leaves to the Executive alone."  571 F. 3d 1227, 1232-1233 (2009).  The D. C. Circuit held that the political question doctrine prohibits such an intrusion by the courts, and rejected any suggestion that Congress's decision to take "a position on the status of Jerusalem" could change the analysis.  Id., at 1233.
     Judge Edwards concurred in the judgment, but wrote separately to express his view that the political question doctrine has no application to this case.  He explained that the issue before the court was whether §214(d) "impermissibly intrude[s] on the President's exclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns."  Id., at 1234.  That question, he observed, involves "commonplace issues of statutory and constitutional interpretation" plainly within the constitutional authority of the Judiciary to decide.  Id., at 1235.  Reaching the merits, Judge Edwards determined that designating Israel as a place of birth on a passport is a policy "in furtherance of the recognition power."  Id., at 1243.  Because in his view the Constitution gives that power exclusively to the President, Judge Edwards found §214(d) unconstitutional.  For this reason, he concluded that Zivotofsky had no viable cause of action, and concurred in affirming the dismissal of the complaint.
     Zivotofsky petitioned for certiorari, and we granted review.  563 U. S. ___ (2011).
II
     The lower courts concluded that Zivotofsky's claim presents a political question and therefore cannot be adjudicated.  We disagree.
     In general, the Judiciary has a responsibility to decide cases properly before it, even those it "would gladly avoid."  Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 404 (1821).  Our precedents have identified a narrow exception to that rule, known as the "political question" doctrine.  See, e.g., Japan Whaling Assn. v. American Cetacean Soc., 478 U. S. 221, 230 (1986).  We have explained that a controversy "involves a political question . . . where there is 'a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political department; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it.' "  Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224, 228 (1993) (quoting Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186, 217 (1962)).  In such a case, we have held that a court lacks the authority to decide the dispute before it.
     The lower courts ruled that this case involves a political question because deciding Zivotofsky's claim would force the Judicial Branch to interfere with the President's exercise of constitutional power committed to him alone.  The District Court understood Zivotofsky to ask the courts to "decide the political status of Jerusalem."  511 F. Supp. 2d, at 103.  This misunderstands the issue presented.  Zivotofsky does not ask the courts to determine whether Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.  He instead seeks to determine whether he may vindicate his statutory right, under §214(d), to choose to have Israel recorded on his passport as his place of birth.
     For its part, the D. C. Circuit treated the two questions as one and the same.  That court concluded that "[o]nly the Executive--not Congress and not the courts--has the power to define U. S. policy regarding Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem," and also to "decide how best to implement that policy."  571 F. 3d, at 1232.  Because the Department's passport rule was adopted to implement the President's "exclusive and unreviewable constitutional power to keep the United States out of the debate over the status of Jerusalem," the validity of that rule was itself a "nonjusticiable political question" that "the Constitution leaves to the Executive alone."  Id., at 1231-1233.  Indeed, the D. C. Circuit's opinion does not even mention §214(d) until the fifth of its six paragraphs of analysis, and then only to dismiss it as irrelevant: "That Congress took a position on the status of Jerusalem and gave Zivotofsky a statutory cause of action . . . is of no moment to whether the judiciary has [the] authority to resolve this dispute . . . ."  Id., at 1233.
     The existence of a statutory right, however, is certainly relevant to the Judiciary's power to decide Zivotofsky's claim.  The federal courts are not being asked to supplant a foreign policy decision of the political branches with the courts' own unmoored determination of what United States policy toward Jerusalem should be.  Instead, Zivotofsky requests that the courts enforce a specific statutory right.  To resolve his claim, the Judiciary must decide if Zivotofsky's interpretation of the statute is correct, and whether the statute is constitutional.  This is a familiar judicial exercise.
     Moreover, because the parties do not dispute the interpretation of §214(d), the only real question for the courts is whether the statute is constitutional.  At least since Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803), we have recognized that when an Act of Congress is alleged to conflict with the Constitution, "[i]t is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is."  Id., at 177.  That duty will sometimes involve the "[r]esolution of litigation challenging the constitutional authority of one of the three branches," but courts cannot avoid their responsibility merely "because the issues have political implications."  INS v. Chadha, 462 U. S. 919, 943 (1983).
     In this case, determining the constitutionality of §214(d) involves deciding whether the statute impermissibly intrudes upon Presidential powers under the Constitution.  If so, the law must be invalidated and Zivotofsky's case should be dismissed for failure to state a claim.  If, on the other hand, the statute does not trench on the President's powers, then the Secretary must be ordered to issue Zivotofsky a passport that complies with §214(d).  Either way, the political question doctrine is not implicated.  "No policy underlying the political question doctrine suggests that Congress or the Executive . . . can decide the constitutionality of a statute; that is a decision for the courts."  Id., at 941-942.
     The Secretary contends that "there is 'a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment' " to the President of the sole power to recognize foreign sovereigns and, as a corollary, to determine whether an American born in Jerusalem may choose to have Israel listed as his place of birth on his passport.  Nixon, 506 U. S., at 228 (quoting Baker, 369 U. S., at 217); see Brief for Respondent 49-50.  Perhaps.  But there is, of course, no exclusive commitment to the Executive of the power to determine the constitutionality of a statute.  The Judicial Branch appropriately exercises that authority, including in a case such as this, where the question is whether Congress or the Executive is "aggrandizing its power at the expense of another branch."  Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U. S. 868, 878 (1991); see, e.g., Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 176 (1926) (finding a statute unconstitutional because it encroached upon the President's removal power); Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U. S. 714, 734 (1986) (finding a statute unconstitutional because it "intruded into the executive function"); Morrison v. Olson, 487 U. S. 654, 685 (1988) (upholding a statute's constitutionality against a charge that it "impermissibly interfere[d] with the President's exercise of his constitutionally appointed functions").
     Our precedents have also found the political question doctrine implicated when there is " 'a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving' " the question before the court.  Nixon, supra, at 228 (quoting Baker, supra, at 217).  Framing the issue as the lower courts did, in terms of whether the Judiciary may decide the political status of Jerusalem, certainly raises those concerns.  They dissipate, however, when the issue is recognized to be the more focused one of the constitutionality of §214(d).  Indeed, both sides offer detailed legal arguments regarding whether §214(d) is constitutional in light of powers committed to the Executive, and whether Congress's own powers with respect to passports must be weighed in analyzing this question.
     For example, the Secretary reprises on the merits her argument on the political question issue, claiming that the Constitution gives the Executive the exclusive power to formulate recognition policy.  She roots her claim in the Constitution's declaration that the President shall "receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers."  U. S. Const., Art. II, §3.  According to the Secretary, "[c]enturies-long Executive Branch practice, congressional acquiescence, and decisions by this Court" confirm that the "receive Ambassadors" clause confers upon the Executive the exclusive power of recognition.  Brief for Respondent 18.
     The Secretary observes that "President Washington and his cabinet unanimously decided that the President could receive the ambassador from the new government of France without first consulting Congress."  Id., at 19 (citing Letter from George Washington to the Cabinet (Apr. 18, 1793), reprinted in 25 Papers of Thomas Jefferson 568-569 (J. Catanzariti ed. 1992); Thomas Jefferson, Notes on Washington's Questions on Neutrality and the Alliance with France (May 6, 1793), reprinted in id., at 665-666).  She notes, too, that early attempts by the Legislature to affect recognition policy were regularly "rejected in Congress as inappropriate incursions into the Executive Branch's constitutional authority."  Brief for Respondent 21.  And she cites precedents from this Court stating that "[p]olitical recognition is exclusively a function of the Executive."  Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino, 376 U. S. 398, 410 (1964); see Brief for Respondent 24-27 (citing, e.g., United States v. Pink, 315 U. S. 203 (1942)).
     The Secretary further contends that §214(d) constitutes an impermissible exercise of the recognition power because "the decision as to how to describe the place of birth . . . operates as an official statement of whether the United States recognizes a state's sovereignty over a territorial area."  Brief for Respondent 38.  The Secretary will not "list[] as a place of birth a country whose sovereignty over the relevant territory the United States does not recognize."  Id., at 39.  Therefore, she claims, "listing 'Israel' as the place of birth would constitute an official decision by the United States to begin to treat Jerusalem as a city located within Israel. "  Id., at 38-39 (some internal quotation marks omitted).
     For his part, Zivotofsky argues that, far from being an exercise of the recognition power, §214(d) is instead a "legitimate and permissible" exercise of Congress's "authority to legislate on the form and content of a passport."  Brief for Petitioner 53.  He points the Court to Professor Louis Henkin's observation that " 'in the competition for power in foreign relations,' Congress has 'an impressive array of powers expressly enumerated in the Constitution.' "  Id., at 45 (quoting L. Henkin, Foreign Affairs and the United States Constitution 63 (2d ed. 1996)).  Zivotofsky suggests that Congress's authority to enact §214(d) derives specifically from its powers over naturalization, U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 4, and foreign commerce, id., §8, cl. 3.  According to Zivotofsky, Congress has used these powers to pass laws regulating the content and issuance of passports since 1856.  See Brief for Petitioner 52 (citing Act of Aug. 18, 1856, §23, 11 Stat. 60).
     Zivotofsky contends that §214(d) fits squarely within this tradition.  He notes that the State Department's designated representative stated in her deposition for this litigation that the "place of birth" entry is included only as "an element of identification."  App. 76 (Deposition of Catherine Barry, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Overseas Citizens Services); see Brief for Petitioner 10.  Moreover, Zivotofsky argues, the "place of birth" entry cannot be taken as a means for recognizing foreign sovereigns, because the State Department authorizes recording unrecognized territories--such as the Gaza Strip and the West Bank--as places of birth.  Brief for Petitioner 43 (citing 7 Foreign Affairs Manual §1383.5-5, App. 109-110).
     Further, Zivotofsky claims that even if §214(d) does implicate the recognition power, that is not a power the Constitution commits exclusively to the Executive.  Zivotofsky argues that the Secretary is overreading the authority granted to the President in the "receive Ambassadors" clause.  He observes that in the Federalist Papers, Alexander Hamilton described the power conferred by this clause as "more a matter of dignity than of authority," and called it "a circumstance, which will be without consequence in the administration of the government."  The Federalist No. 69, p. 468 (J. Cooke ed. 1961); see Brief for Petitioner 37.  Zivotofsky also points to other clauses in the Constitution, such as Congress's power to declare war, that suggest some congressional role in recognition.  Reply Brief for Petitioner 23 (citing U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 11).  He cites, for example, an 1836 message from President Jackson to Congress, acknowledging that it is unclear who holds the authority to recognize because it is a power "no where expressly delegated" in the Constitution, and one that is "necessarily involved in some of the great powers given to Congress."  Message from the President of the United States Upon the Subject of the Political, Military, and Civil Condition of Texas, H. R. Doc. No. 35, 24th Cong., 2d Sess., 2; see Reply Brief for Petitioner 11-12.
     Zivotofsky argues that language from this Court's precedents suggesting the recognition power belongs exclusively to the President is inapplicable to his claim, because that language appeared in cases where the Court was asked to alter recognition policy developed by the Executive in the absence of congressional opposition.  See Brief for Petitioner 44-46; Reply Brief for Petitioner 18-19.  Finally, Zivotofsky contends that even if the "receive Ambassadors" clause confers some exclusive recognition power on the President, simply allowing a choice as to the "place of birth" entry on a passport does not significantly intrude on that power.
     Recitation of these arguments--which sound in familiar principles of constitutional interpretation--is enough to establish that this case does not "turn on standards that defy judicial application."  Baker, 369 U. S., at 211.  Resolution of Zivotofksy's claim demands careful examination of the textual, structural, and historical evidence put forward by the parties regarding the nature of the statute and of the passport and recognition powers.  This is what courts do.  The political question doctrine poses no bar to judicial review of this case.
III
     To say that Zivotofsky's claim presents issues the Judiciary is competent to resolve is not to say that reaching a decision in this case is simple.  Because the District Court and the D. C. Circuit believed that review was barred by the political question doctrine, we are without the benefit of thorough lower court opinions to guide our analysis of the merits.  Ours is "a court of final review and not first view."  Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Mineta, 534 U. S. 103, 110 (2001) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Ordinarily, "we do not decide in the first instance issues not decided below."  National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v. Smith, 525 U. S. 459, 470 (1999).  In particular, when we reverse on a threshold question, we typically remand for resolution of any claims the lower courts' error prevented them from addressing.  See, e.g., Bond v. United States, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 1-2) (reversing the Court of Appeals' determination on standing and remanding because the "merits of petitioner's challenge to the statute's validity are to be considered, in the first instance, by the Court of Appeals").  We see no reason to depart from this approach in this case.  Having determined that this case is justiciable, we leave it to the lower courts to consider the merits in the first instance.
     The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

Opinion of Sotomayor, J.
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 10-699
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents and guardians, ARI Z. and NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[March 26, 2012]

     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer joins as to Part I, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.
     As this case illustrates, the proper application of Baker's six factors has generated substantial confusion in the lower courts.  I concur in the Court's conclusion that this case does not present a political question.  I write separately, however, because I understand the inquiry required by the political question doctrine to be more demanding than that suggested by the Court.
I
     The political question doctrine speaks to an amalgam of circumstances in which courts properly examine whether a particular suit is justiciable--that is, whether the dispute is appropriate for resolution by courts.  The doctrine is "essentially a function of the separation of powers," Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186, 217 (1962), which recognizes the limits that Article III imposes upon courts and accords appropriate respect to the other branches' exercise of their own constitutional powers.
     In Baker, this Court identified six circumstances in which an issue might present a political question: (1) "a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political department"; (2) "a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it"; (3) "the impossibility of deciding without an initial policy determination of a kind clearly for nonjudicial discretion"; (4) "the impossibility of a court's undertaking independent resolution without expressing lack of the respect due coordinate branches of government"; (5) "an unusual need for unquestioning adherence to a political decision already made"; or (6) "the potentiality of embarrassment from multifarious pronouncements by various departments on one question."  Id., at 217.  Baker established that "[u]nless one of these formulations is inextricable from the case at bar, there should be no dismissal for nonjusticiability."  Ibid.  But Baker left unanswered when the presence of one or more factors warrants dismissal, as well as the interrelationship of the six factors and the relative importance of each in determining whether a case is suitable for adjudication.
     In my view, the Baker factors reflect three distinct justifications for withholding judgment on the merits of a dispute.  When a case would require a court to decide an issue whose resolution is textually committed to a coordinate political department, as envisioned by Baker's first factor, abstention is warranted because the court lacks authority to resolve that issue.  See, e.g., Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224, 229 (1993) (holding nonjusticiable the Senate's impeachment procedures in light of Article I's commitment to the Senate of the " 'sole Power to try all Impeachments' "); see also Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 165-166 (1803) ("By the constitution of the United States, the president is invested with certain important political powers, in the exercise of which he is to use his own discretion, and is accountable only to his country in his political character, and to his own conscience").  In such cases, the Constitution itself requires that another branch resolve the question presented.
     The second and third Baker factors reflect circumstances in which a dispute calls for decisionmaking beyond courts' competence.  " 'The judicial Power' created by Article III, §1, of the Constitution is not whatever judges choose to do," but rather the power "to act in the manner traditional for English and American courts."  Vieth v. Jubelirer, 541 U. S. 267, 278 (2004) (plurality opinion).  That traditional role involves the application of some manageable and cognizable standard within the competence of the Judiciary to ascertain and employ to the facts of a concrete case.  When a court is given no standard by which to adjudicate a dispute, or cannot resolve a dispute in the absence of a yet-unmade policy determination charged to a political branch, resolution of the suit is beyond the judicial role envisioned by Article III.  See, e.g., Gilligan v. Morgan, 413 U. S. 1, 10 (1973) ("[I]t is difficult to conceive of an area of governmental activity in which the courts have less competence" than "[t]he complex, subtle, and professional decisions as to the composition, training, equipping, and control of a military force"); Vieth, 541 U. S., at 278 ("One of the most obvious limitations imposed by [Article III] is that judicial action must be governed by standard . . . ").  This is not to say, of course, that courts are incapable of interpreting or applying somewhat ambiguous standards using familiar tools of statutory or constitutional interpretation.  But where an issue leaves courts truly rudderless, there can be "no doubt of [the] validity" of a court's decision to abstain from judgment.  Ibid.
     The final three Baker factors address circumstances in which prudence may counsel against a court's resolution of an issue presented.  Courts should be particularly cautious before forgoing adjudication of a dispute on the basis that judicial intervention risks "embarrassment from multifarious pronouncements by various departments on one question," would express a "lack of the respect due coordinate branches of government," or because there exists an "unusual need for unquestioning adherence to a political decision already made."  369 U. S., at 217.  We have repeatedly rejected the view that these thresholds are met whenever a court is called upon to resolve the constitutionality or propriety of the act of another branch of Government.  See, e.g., United States v. Munoz-Flores, 495 U. S. 385, 390-391 (1990); Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 548, 549 (1969).  A court may not refuse to adjudicate a dispute merely because a decision "may have significant political overtones" or affect "the conduct of this Nation's foreign relations," Japan Whaling Assn. v. American Cetacean Soc., 478 U. S. 221, 230 (1986).  Nor may courts decline to resolve a controversy within their traditional competence and proper jurisdiction simply because the question is difficult, the consequences weighty, or the potential real for conflict with the policy preferences of the political branches.  The exercise of such authority is among the "gravest and most delicate dut[ies] that this Court is called on to perform," Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 148 (1927) (Holmes, J., concurring), but it is the role assigned to courts by the Constitution.  "Questions may occur which we would gladly avoid; but we cannot avoid them.  All we can do is, to exercise our best judgment, and conscientiously to perform our duty."  Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 404 (1821).
     Rare occasions implicating Baker's final factors, however, may present an " 'unusual case' " unfit for judicial disposition.  369 U. S., at 218 (quoting the argument of Daniel Webster in Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 29 (1849)).  Because of the respect due to a coequal and independent department, for instance, courts properly resist calls to question the good faith with which another branch attests to the authenticity of its internal acts.  See, e.g., Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 672-673 (1892) (deeming "forbidden by the respect due to a coordinate branch of the government" "[j]udicial action" requiring a belief in a "deliberate conspiracy" by the Senate and House of Representatives "to defeat an expression of the popular will"); see also Munoz-Flores, 495 U. S., at 409-410 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) ("Mutual regard between the coordinate branches, and the interest of certainty, both demand that official representations regarding . . . matters of internal process be accepted at face value").  Likewise, we have long acknowledged that courts are particularly ill suited to intervening in exigent disputes necessitating unusual need for "attributing finality to the action of the political departments," Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433, 454 (1939), or creating acute "risk [of] embarrassment of our government abroad, or grave disturbance at home," Baker, 369 U. S., at 226.  See, e.g., Luther, 7 How., at 43 ("After the President has acted and called out the militia, is a Circuit Court of the United States authorized to inquire whether his decision was right? . . .  If the judicial power extends so far, the guarantee contained in the Constitution of the United States is a guarantee of anarchy, and not of order").1  Finally, it may be appropriate for courts to stay their hand in cases implicating delicate questions concerning the distribution of political authority between coordinate branches until a dispute is ripe, intractable, and incapable of resolution by the political process.  See Goldwater v. Carter, 444 U. S. 996, 997 (1979) (Powell, J., concurring in judgment).  Abstention merely reflects that judicial intervention in such cases is "legitimate only in the last resort," Chicago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345 (1892), and is disfavored relative to the prospect of accommodation between the political branches.
     When such unusual cases arise, abstention accommodates considerations inherent in the separation of powers and the limitations envisioned by Article III, which conferred authority to federal courts against a common-law backdrop that recognized the propriety of abstention in exceptional cases.  New Orleans Public Service, Inc. v. Council of City of New Orleans, 491 U. S. 350, 359 (1989); see generally Shapiro, Jurisdiction and Discretion, 60 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 543 (1985) (hereinafter Shapiro).  The political questions envisioned by Baker's final categories find common ground, therefore, with many longstanding doctrines under which considerations of justiciability or comity lead courts to abstain from deciding questions whose initial resolution is better suited to another time, see, e.g., National Park Hospitality Assn. v. Department of Interior, 538 U. S. 803, 808 (2003) (ripeness); United States Parole Comm'n v. Geraghty, 445 U. S. 388, 397 (1980) (mootness); or another forum, see, e.g., Gulf Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501, 507 (1947) (forum non conveniens); Railroad Comm'n of Tex. v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496, 498-500 (1941); Louisiana Power & Light Co. v. City of Thibodaux, 360 U. S. 25, 25-30 (1959); Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U. S. 315, 333-334 (1943) (abstention in favor of a state forum); United States v. Western Pa- cific R. Co., 352 U. S. 59, 63-64 (1956) (primary jurisdiction doctrine).  See also DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 352 (2006) ("The doctrines of mootness, ripeness, and political question all originate in Article III's 'case' or 'controversy' language"); Shapiro 550-557, 580-587 (describing practices of judicial abstention sounding in justiciability, comity, forum non conveniens, and separation of powers).
     To be sure, it will be the rare case in which Baker's final factors alone render a case nonjusticiable.2  But our long historical tradition recognizes that such exceptional cases arise, and due regard for the separation of powers and the judicial role envisioned by Article III confirms that abstention may be an appropriate response.
II
     The court below held that this case presented a political question because it thought petitioner's suit asked the court to decide an issue "textually committed" to a coordinate branch--namely, "to review a policy of the State Department implementing the President's decision" to keep the United States out of the debate over the status of Jersualem.  571 F. 3d 1227, 1231-1232 (CADC 2009).  Largely for the reasons set out by the Court, I agree that the Court of Appeals misapprehended the nature of its task.  In two respects, however, my understanding of the political question doctrine might require a court to engage in further analysis beyond that relied upon by the Court.
     First, the Court appropriately recognizes that petitioner's claim to a statutory right is "relevant" to the justiciability inquiry required in this case.  Ante, at 6.  In order to evaluate whether a case presents a political question, a court must first identify with precision the issue it is being asked to decide.  Here, petitioner's suit claims that a federal statute provides him with a right to have "Israel" listed as his place of birth on his passport and other related documents.  App. 15-18.  To decide that question, a court must determine whether the statute is constitutional, and therefore mandates the Secretary of State to issue petitioner's desired passport, or unconstitutional, in which case his suit is at an end.  Resolution of that issue is not one "textually committed" to another branch; to the contrary, it is committed to this one.  In no fashion does the question require a court to review the wisdom of the President's policy toward Jerusalem or any other decision committed to the discretion of a coordinate department.  For that reason, I agree that the decision below should be reversed.
     That is not to say, however, that no statute could give rise to a political question.  It is not impossible to imagine a case involving the application or even the constitutionality of an enactment that would present a nonjusticiable issue.  Indeed, this Court refused to determine whether an Ohio state constitutional provision offended the Republican Guarantee Clause, Art. IV, §4, holding that "the question of whether that guarantee of the Constitution has been disregarded presents no justiciable controversy."  Ohio ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U. S. 565, 569 (1916).  A similar result would follow if Congress passed a statute, for instance, purporting to award financial relief to those improperly "tried" of impeachment offenses.  To adjudicate claims under such a statute would require a court to resolve the very same issue we found nonjusticiable in Nixon.  Such examples are atypical, but they suffice to show that the foreclosure altogether of political question analysis in statutory cases is unwarranted.
     Second, the Court suggests that this case does not implicate the political question doctrine's concern with issues exhibiting " 'a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards,' " ante, at 8, because the parties' arguments rely on textual, structural, and historical evidence of the kind that courts routinely consider.  But that was equally true in Nixon, a case in which we found that "the use of the word 'try' in the first sentence of the Impeachment Trial Clause lacks sufficient precision to afford any judicially manageable standard of review of the Senate's actions."  506 U. S., at 230.  We reached that conclusion even though the parties' briefs focused upon the text of the Impeachment Trial Clause, "the Constitution's drafting history," "contemporaneous commentary," "the unbroken practice of the Senate for 150 years," contemporary dictionary meanings, "Hamilton's Federalist essays," and the practice in the House of Lords prior to ratification.  Such evidence was no more or less unfamiliar to courts than that on which the parties rely here.
     In my view, it is not whether the evidence upon which litigants rely is common to judicial consideration that determines whether a case lacks judicially discoverable and manageable standards.  Rather, it is whether that evidence in fact provides a court a basis to adjudicate meaningfully the issue with which it is presented.  The answer will almost always be yes, but if the parties' textual, structural, and historical evidence is inapposite or wholly unilluminating, rendering judicial decision no more than guesswork, a case relying on the ordinary kinds of arguments offered to courts might well still present justiciability concerns.
     In this case, however, the Court of Appeals majority found a political question solely on the basis that this case required resolution of an issue "textually committed" to the Executive Branch.  Because there was no such textual commitment, I respectfully concur in the Court's decision to reverse the Court of Appeals.

Alito, J., concurring in judgment
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 10-699
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents and guardians, ARI Z. and NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[March 26, 2012]

     Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.
     This case presents a narrow question, namely, whether the statutory provision at issue infringes the power of the President to regulate the contents of a passport.  This case does not require the Judiciary to decide whether the power to recognize foreign governments and the extent of their territory is conferred exclusively on the President or is shared with Congress.  Petitioner does not claim that the statutory provision in question represents an attempt by Congress to dictate United States policy regarding the status of Jerusalem.  Instead, petitioner contends in effect that Congress has the power to mandate that an American citizen born abroad be given the option of including in his passport and Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) what amounts to a statement of personal belief on the status of Jerusalem.
     Powers conferred on Congress by the Constitution certainly give Congress a measure of authority to prescribe the contents of passports and CRBAs.  The Constitution gives Congress the power to regulate foreign commerce, Art. I, §8, cl. 3, and this power includes the power to regulate the entry of persons into this country, see Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 270-271 (1876).  The Constitution also gives Congress the power to make a "uniform Rule of Naturalization," Art. I, §8, cl. 4, and pursuant to this power, Congress has enacted laws concerning the citizenship of children born abroad to parents who are citizens of this country, see United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 688 (1898).  These powers allow Congress to mandate that identifying information be included in passports and CRBAs.
     The President also has a measure of authority concerning the contents of passports and CRBAs.  The President has broad authority in the field of foreign affairs, see, e.g., American Ins. Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 414 (2003), and, historically, that authority has included the power to issue passports, even in the absence of any formal congressional conferral of authority to do so.  See Haig v. Agee, 453 U. S. 280, 293 (1981) (explaining that "[p]rior to 1856, when there was no statute on the subject, the common perception was that the issuance of a passport was committed to the sole discretion of the Executive and that the Executive would exercise this power in the interests of the national security and foreign policy of the United States").  We have described a passport as "a letter of introduction in which the issuing sovereign vouches for the bearer and requests other sovereigns to aid the bearer."  Id., at 292.  This is apparent from the first page of petitioner's passport, which reads as follows:
"The Secretary of State of the United States of America hereby requests all whom it may concern to permit the citizen / national of the United States named herein to pass without delay or hindrance and in case of need to give all lawful aid and protection."  App. 19.
Similarly, a CRBA is a certification made by a consular official that the bearer acquired United States citizenship at birth.  See id., at 20.
     Under our case law, determining the constitutionality of an Act of Congress may present a political question, but I do not think that the narrow question presented here falls within that category.  Delineating the precise dividing line between the powers of Congress and the President with respect to the contents of a passport is not an easy matter, but I agree with the Court that it does not constitute a political question that the Judiciary is unable to decide.

Breyer, J., dissenting
 566 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 10-699
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents and guardians, ARI Z. and NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER v. HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, SECRETARY OF STATE
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
[March 26, 2012]

     Justice Breyer, dissenting.
     I join Part I of Justice Sotomayor's opinion.  As she points out, Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186 (1962), set forth several categories of legal questions that the Court had previously held to be "political questions" inappropriate for judicial determination.  Those categories include (1) instances in which the Constitution clearly commits decisionmaking power to another branch of Government, and (2) issues lacking judicially manageable standards for resolution.  Id., at 217.  They also include (3) issues that courts cannot decide without making "an initial policy determination of a kind clearly for nonjudicial discretion," (4) issues that a court cannot independently decide "without expressing lack of the respect due coordinate branches of government," (5) cases in which there is "an unusual need for unquestioning adherence to a political decision already made," and (6) cases in which there is a potential for "embarrassment from multifarious pronouncements by various departments on one question."  Ibid.
     As Justice Sotomayor also points out, these categories (and in my view particularly the last four) embody "circumstances in which prudence may counsel against a court's resolution of an issue presented."  Ante, at 3 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment); see Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224, 253 (1993) (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) (the political-question doctrine "deriv[es] in large part from prudential concerns about the respect we owe the political departments"); Goldwater v. Carter, 444 U. S. 996, 1000 (1979) (Powell, J., concurring in judgment) ("[T]he political-question doctrine rests in part on prudential concerns calling for mutual respect among the three branches of Government"); see also Jaffe, Standing to Secure Judicial Review: Public Actions, 74 Harv. L. Rev. 1265, 1304 (1961) (prudence counsels hesitation where a legal issue is "felt to be so closely related to a complex of decisions not within the court's jurisdiction that its resolution by the court would either be poor in itself or would jeopardize sound decisions in the larger complex").
     Justice Sotomayor adds that the circumstances in which these prudential considerations lead the Court not to decide a case otherwise properly before it are rare.  Ante, at 7.  I agree.  But in my view we nonetheless have before us such a case.  Four sets of prudential considerations, taken together, lead me to that conclusion.
     First, the issue before us arises in the field of foreign affairs.  (Indeed, the statutory provision before us is a subsection of a section that concerns the relation between Jerusalem and the State of Israel.  See §214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, 116 Stat. 1365 ("United States Policy with Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel").)  The Constitution primarily delegates the foreign affairs powers "to the political departments of the government, Executive and Legislative," not to the Judiciary.  Chicago & Southern Air Lines, Inc. v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 333 U. S. 103, 111 (1948); see also Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 166 (1803) (noting discretionary foreign affairs functions of Secretary of State as beyond the power of the Judiciary to review).  And that fact is not surprising.  Decisionmaking in this area typically is highly political.  It is "delicate" and "complex."  Chicago & Southern Air Lines, 333 U. S., at 111.  It often rests upon information readily available to the Executive Branch and to the intelligence committees of Congress, but not readily available to the courts.  Ibid.  It frequently is highly dependent upon what Justice Jackson called "prophecy."  Ibid.  And the creation of wise foreign policy typically lies well beyond the experience or professional capacity of a judge.  Ibid.  At the same time, where foreign affairs is at issue, the practical need for the United States to speak "with one voice and ac[t] as one," is particularly important.  See United States v. Pink, 315 U. S. 203, 242 (1942) (Frankfurter, J., concurring); see also R. Fallon, J. Manning, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 240 (6th ed. 2009).
     The result is a judicial hesitancy to make decisions that have significant foreign policy implications, as reflected in the fact that many of the cases in which the Court has invoked the political-question doctrine have arisen in this area, e.g., cases in which the validity of a treaty depended upon the partner state's constitutional authority, Doe v. Braden, 16 How. 635, 657 (1854), or upon its continuing existence, Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 285 (1902); cases concerning the existence of foreign states, governments, belligerents, and insurgents, Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246 U. S. 297, 302 (1918); United States v. Klintock, 5 Wheat. 144, 149 (1820); United States v. Pal- mer, 3 Wheat. 610, 634-635 (1818); and cases concerning the territorial boundaries of foreign states, Williams v. Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420 (1839); Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 307 (1829).  See Baker, supra, at 186, 211-213 (citing these cases as the Court's principal foreign-relations political-question cases); see also Fallon, supra, at 243-247.
     Second, if the courts must answer the constitutional question before us, they may well have to evaluate the foreign policy implications of foreign policy decisions.  The constitutional question focuses upon a statutory provision, §214(d), that says: The Secretary of State, upon the request of a U. S. citizen born in Jerusalem (or upon the request of the citizen's legal guardian), shall "record" in the citizen's passport or consular birth report "the place of birth as Israel."  116 Stat. 1366.  And the question is whether this statute unconstitutionally seeks to limit the President's inherent constitutional authority to make certain kinds of foreign policy decisions.  See American Ins. Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 414-415 (2003) (citing cases); Clinton v. City of New York, 524 U. S. 417, 445 (1998) ("[T]his Court has recognized that in the foreign affairs arena, the President has 'a degree of discretion and freedom from statutory restriction which would not be admissible were domestic affairs alone involved' " (quoting United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 320 (1936))); cf. Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 637-638 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring).
     The Secretary of State argues that the President's constitutional authority to determine foreign policy includes the power to recognize foreign governments, that this Court has long recognized that the latter power belongs to the President exclusively, that the power includes the power to determine claims over disputed territory as well as the policy governing recognition decisions, and that the statute unconstitutionally limits the President's exclusive authority to exercise these powers.  See U. S. Const., Art. II, §2, cl. 2; Art. II, §3; e.g., Kennett v. Chambers, 14 How. 38, 50-51 (1852) (recognition); Williams, supra, at 420 (disputed territory); Pink, supra, at 229 (recognition policy); see also Haig v. Agee, 453 U. S. 280, 293 (1981) (executive passport authority).
     Zivotofsky, supported by several Members of Congress, points out that the Constitution also grants Congress powers related to foreign affairs, such as the powers to declare war, to regulate foreign commerce, and to regulate naturalization.  See Art. I, §8, cls. 3, 4, 11; see also American Ins. Assn., supra, at 414.  They add that Congress may share some of the recognition power and its attendant power of determining claims over disputed territory.  E.g., Palmer, supra, at 634 (recognition); Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 212 (1890) (disputed territory).  And they add that Congress may enact laws concerning travel into this country and concerning the citizenship of children born abroad to U. S. citizens.  See Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 270-271 (1876) (travel); Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 714 (1893) (immigration); United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 688 (1898) (citizenship).  They argue that these powers include the power to specify the content of a passport (or consular birth report).  And when such a specification takes the form of statutory law, they say, the Constitution requires the President (through the Secretary of State) to execute that statute.  See Art. II, §3. 
     Were the statutory provision undisputedly concerned only with purely administrative matters (or were its enforcement undisputedly to involve only major foreign policy matters), judicial efforts to answer the constitutional question might not involve judges in trying to answer questions of foreign policy.  But in the Middle East, administrative matters can have implications that extend far beyond the purely administrative.  Political reactions in that region can prove uncertain.  And in that context it may well turn out that resolution of the constitutional argument will require a court to decide how far the statute, in practice, reaches beyond the purely administrative, determining not only whether but also the extent to which enforcement will interfere with the President's ability to make significant recognition-related foreign policy decisions.
     Certainly the parties argue as if that were so.  Zivotofsky, for example, argues that replacing "Jerusalem" on his passport with "Israel" will have no serious foreign policy significance.  See Brief for Petitioner 43, 46-52; Reply Brief for Petitioner 25-26.  And in support he points to (1) a State Department official's statement that birthplace designation serves primarily as "an element of identification," while omitting mention of recognition; (2) the fact that the State Department has recorded births in unrecognized territories in the region, such as the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, apparently without adverse effect; and (3) the fact that sometimes Jerusalem does (because of what the Government calls "clerical errors") carry with it the name of "Israel" on certain official documents, again apparently without seriously adverse effect.  See Brief for Petitioner 7-10, 15, 43, 50; App. 50, 58-60, 75-76.  Moreover, Zivotofsky says, it is unfair to allow the 100,000 or so Americans born in cities that the United States recognizes as under Israeli sovereignty, such as Tel Aviv or Haifa, the right to a record that mentions Israel, while denying that privilege to the 50,000 or so Americans born in Jerusalem.  See Brief for Petitioner 18-20, 48-49; App. 48.
     At the same time, the Secretary argues that listing Israel on the passports (and consular birth reports) of Americans born in Jerusalem will have significantly adverse foreign policy effects.  See Brief for Respondent 8, 37-41.  She says that doing so would represent " 'an official decision by the United States to begin to treat Jerusalem as a city located within Israel,' " id., at 38-39, that it "would be interpreted as an official act of recognizing Jerusalem as being under Israeli sovereignty," App. 56, and that our "national security interests" consequently "would be significantly harmed," id., at 49.  Such an action, she says, " 'would signal, symbolically or concretely, that' " the United States " 'recognizes that Jerusalem is a city that is located within the sovereign territory of Israel,' " and doing so, " 'would critically compromise the ability of the United States to work with Israelis, Palestinians and others in the region to further the peace process.' "  Brief for Respondent 2; App. 52-53.  She adds that the very enactment of this statutory provision in 2002 produced headlines in the Middle East stating the "the U. S. now recognizes Jerusalem as Israel's capital."  Id., at 231; Brief for Respondent 10; see also App. 53-55, 227-231.
     A judge's ability to evaluate opposing claims of this kind is minimal.  At the same time, a judicial effort to do so risks inadvertently jeopardizing sound foreign policy decisionmaking by the other branches of Government.  How, for example, is this Court to determine whether, or the extent to which, the continuation of the adjudication that it now orders will itself have a foreign policy effect?
     Third, the countervailing interests in obtaining judicial resolution of the constitutional determination are not particularly strong ones.  Zivotofsky does not assert the kind of interest, e.g., an interest in property or bodily integrity, which courts have traditionally sought to protect.  See, e.g., Ingraham v. Wright, 430 U. S. 651, 673-674 (1977) (enduring commitment to legal protection of bodily integrity).  Nor, importantly, does he assert an interest in vindicating a basic right of the kind that the Constitution grants to individuals and that courts traditionally have protected from invasion by the other branches of Government.  And I emphasize this fact because the need for judicial action in such cases can trump the foreign policy concerns that I have mentioned.  As Professor Jaffe pointed out many years ago, "Our courts would not refuse to entertain habeas corpus to test the constitutionality of the imprisonment of an alleged Chinese agent even if it were clear that his imprisonment was closely bound up with our relations to the Chinese government."  74 Harv. L. Rev., at 1304; see also T. Franck, Political Questions/ Judicial Answers 63-64 (1992); cf. Boumediene v. Bush, 553 U. S. 723, 755 (2008).
     The interest that Zivotofsky asserts, however, is akin to an ideological interest.  See Brief for Petitioner 54 (citizen born in Jerusalem, unlike citizen born in Tel Aviv or Haifa, does not have the "option" to "specify or suppress the name of a country that accords with his or her ideology"); see also id., at 19 (State Department policy bars citizens born in Jerusalem "from identifying their birthplace in a manner that conforms with their convictions").  And insofar as an individual suffers an injury that is purely ideological, courts have often refused to consider the matter, leaving the injured party to look to the political branches for protection.  E.g., Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 66-67 (1986); Sierra Club v. Morton, 405 U. S. 727, 739-740 (1972).  This is not to say that Zivotofsky's claim is unimportant or that the injury is not serious or even that it is purely ideological.  It is to point out that those suffering somewhat similar harms have sometimes had to look to the political branches for resolution of relevant legal issues.  Cf. United States v. Richardson, 418 U. S. 166, 179 (1974); Laird v. Tatum, 408 U. S. 1, 15 (1972).
     Fourth, insofar as the controversy reflects different foreign policy views among the political branches of Government, those branches have nonjudicial methods of working out their differences.  Cf. Goldwater, 444 U. S., at 1002, 1004 (Rehnquist, J., joined by Burger, C. J., and Stewart and Stevens, JJ., concurring in judgment) (finding in similar fact strong reason for Judiciary not to decide treaty power question).  The Executive and Legislative Branches frequently work out disagreements through ongoing contacts and relationships, involving, for example, budget authorizations, confirmation of personnel, committee hearings, and a host of more informal contacts, which, taken together, ensure that, in practice, Members of Congress as well as the President play an important role in the shaping of foreign policy.  Indeed, both the Legislative Branch and the Executive Branch typically understand the need to work each with the other in order to create effective foreign policy.  In that understanding, those related contacts, and the continuous foreign policy-related relationship lies the possibility of working out the kind of disagreement we see before us.  Moreover, if application of the political-question "doctrine ultimately turns, as Learned Hand put it, on 'how importunately the occasion demands an answer,' " Nixon, 506 U. S., at 253 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) (quoting L. Hand, The Bill of Rights 15 (1958)), the ability of the political branches to work out their differences minimizes the need for judicial intervention here.
     The upshot is that this case is unusual both in its minimal need for judicial intervention and in its more serious risk that intervention will bring about "embarrassment," show lack of "respect" for the other branches, and potentially disrupt sound foreign policy decisionmaking.  For these prudential reasons, I would hold that the political-question doctrine bars further judicial consideration of this case.  And I would affirm the Court of Appeals' similar conclusion.
     With respect, I dissent.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 See also Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 29-30 (1827) (Story, J.) (declining to review the President's determination that an "exigency has arisen," necessitating the "call [of] the militia into actual service," recognizing need for "[a] prompt and unhesitating obedience to orders is indispensable"); Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199, 260 (1796) (Iredell, J., concurring) (to declare treaty with Great Britain void would turn on "considerations of policy, considerations of extreme magnitude, [which are] certainly entirely incompetent to the examination and decision of a Court of Justice").
Footnote 2 Often when such factors are implicated in a case presenting a political question, other factors identified in Baker will likewise be apparent.  See, e.g., Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224, 236 (1993) ("[i]n addition to the textual commitment argument," finding persuasive that "opening the door of judicial review" of impeachment procedures would " 'expose the political life of the country to months, or perhaps years, of chaos' "); Baker, 369 U. S., at 222 (explaining that the Court in Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1 (1849), found present features associated with each of the three rationales underlying Baker's factors).





United States Supreme Court
KAWASHIMA ET UX. v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2012)
No. 10-577
Argued: November 7, 2011    Decided: February 21, 2012


An Immigration Judge ordered the removal of resident aliens Akio and Fusako Kawashima, determining that Mr. Kawashima's conviction for willfully making and subscribing a false tax return, 26 U. S. C. §7206(1), and Mrs. Kawashima's conviction for aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false tax return, §7206(2), qualified as crimes involving fraud or deceit under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i) (Clause (i)) and thus were aggravated felonies for which they could be deported under §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  The Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed.  Holding that convictions under 26 U. S. C. §§7206(1) and (2) in which the Government's revenue loss exceeds $10,000 constitute aggravated felonies under Clause (i), the Ninth Circuit affirmed, but remanded for the Board to determine whether Mrs. Kawashima's conviction had caused a Government loss in excess of $10,000.
Held: Convictions under 26 U. S. C. §§7206(1) and (2) in which the Government's revenue loss exceeds $10,000 qualify as aggravated felonies pursuant to Clause (i).  Pp. 3−11.
     (a) The Kawashimas' argument that they cannot be deported for the commission of an "aggravated felony" because crimes under §§7206(1) and (2) do not involve the fraud or deceit required by Clause (i) is rejected.  This Court looks to the statute defining the crime of conviction, rather than the specific facts underlying the crime, see Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 186, to determine whether the Kawashimas' offenses involve fraud or deceit within the meaning of Clause (i).  Section 7206(1) provides that any person who "willfully makes and subscribes any return . . . which contains or is verified by a written declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury, and which he does not believe to be true and correct as to every material matter," shall be guilty of a felony.  Although the words "fraud" and "deceit" are absent from §7206(1) and are not themselves formal elements of the crime, it does not follow that Mr. Kawashima's offense falls outside Clause (i). Clause (i) is not limited to offenses that include fraud or deceit as formal elements.  Rather, it refers more broadly to offenses involving fraud or deceit&horbar;meaning offenses with elements that necessarily entail fraudulent or deceitful conduct.  Mr. Kawashima's conviction under §7206(1) involved deceitful conduct in that he knowingly and willfully submitted a tax return that was false as to a material matter.  Mrs. Kawashima was convicted of violating §7206(2), which declares that any person who "[w]illfully aids or assists in . . . the preparation or presentation . . . of a return . . . which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter" has committed a felony.  She committed a felony involving deceit by knowingly and willfully assisting her husband's filing of a materially false tax return.  Pp. 3−6.
     (b) The Kawashimas' argument that Clause (i), when considered in light of 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(ii) (Clause (ii)), must be interpreted as being inapplicable to tax crimes is also rejected.  Clause (i) defines "aggravated felony" to mean an offense that "involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000."  Clause (ii) defines "aggravated felony" as an offense that is "described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."  Contrary to the Kawashimas' claim, the difference in the clauses' language--"revenue loss to the Government" in Clause (ii) compared to "loss to the victim" in Clause (i)--does not establish Congress' intent to remove tax crimes from the scope of Clause (i).  By its plain language, Clause (i) covers a broad class of offenses that involve fraud or deceit, and Congress' decision to tailor Clause (ii)'s language to match the sole type of offense it covers does not demonstrate that Congress intended to implicitly circumscribe Clause (i)'s broad scope.  Furthermore, interpreting Clause (i) to include tax crimes does not violate the presumption against superfluities.  The specific inclusion of tax evasion in Clause (ii) does not make it redundant to Clause (i) because the inclusion was intended to ensure that tax evasion pursuant to 26 U. S. C. §7201 was a deportable offense.  Pp. 6−10.
     (c) The United States Sentencing Guidelines' separate treatment of tax crimes and crimes involving fraud and deceit does not support the Kawashimas' contention that Congress did not intend to include tax crimes within Clause (i).  No evidence suggests that Congress considered the Guidelines when drafting 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M).  Moreover, the differences between §1101(a)(43)(M) and the Guidelines undercut any inference that Congress was incorporating the distinction drawn by the Guidelines into §1101(a)(43)(M).  Pp. 10−11.
     (d) Construing §1101(a)(43)(M) in the Kawashimas' favor under the rule of lenity is not warranted in light of the statute's clear application.  P. 11.
615 F. 3d 1043, affirmed.
     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Breyer and Kagan, JJ., joined.

Opinion of the Court
 565 U. S. ____ (2012)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 10-577
AKIO KAWASHIMA, et ux., PETITIONERS v. ERIC H.HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[February 21, 2012]

     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.
     This case concerns whether aliens who commit certain federal tax crimes are subject to deportation as aliens who have been convicted of an aggravated felony.  We hold that violations of 26 U. S. C. §§7206(1) and (2) are crimes "involv[ing] fraud or deceit" under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i) and are therefore aggravated felonies as that term is defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., when the loss to the Government exceeds $10,000.
I
     Petitioners, Akio and Fusako Kawashima, are natives and citizens of Japan who have been lawful permanent residents of the United States since June 21, 1984.  In 1997, Mr. Kawashima pleaded guilty to one count of willfully making and subscribing a false tax return in violation of 26 U. S. C. §7206(1).  Mrs. Kawashima pleaded guilty to one count of aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false tax return in violation of 26 U. S. C. §7206(2).
     Following their convictions, the Immigration and Naturalization Service charged the Kawashimas with being deportable from the United States as aliens who had been convicted of an aggravated felony.1  See 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) ("Any alien who is convicted of an aggravated felony at any time after admission is deportable").2  In the Immigration and Nationality Act, Congress listed categories of offenses that qualify as "aggravated felonies" for the purpose of deportation.  See §1101(a)(43).  Here, the Government charged the Kawashimas with being deportable for committing offenses under subparagraph (M) of §1101(a)(43).  That subparagraph classifies as an aggravated felony an offense that either: "(i) involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000; or (ii) is described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."  Hereinafter, we refer to §1101(a)(43)(M)(i) as "Clause (i)" and to §1101(a)(43)(M)(ii) as "Clause (ii)."
     At their deportation hearing, the Kawashimas argued that their convictions under 26 U. S. C. §7206 did not qualify as aggravated felonies under subparagraph (M).  The Immigration Judge disagreed and ordered removal, concluding that the Kawashimas' convictions qualified as aggravated felonies under Clause (i).  The Kawashimas appealed the removal order to the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board), which affirmed the Immigration Judge's decision.  After unsuccessfully petitioning the Board to reopen its decision, the Kawashimas filed petitions for review of the Board's decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
     The Ninth Circuit held that "convictions for violating §§7206(1) and (2) in which the tax loss to the Government exceeds $10,000 constitute aggravated felonies under subsection (M)(i)."  615 F. 3d 1043, 1053 (2010).  The court concluded that Mr. Kawashima's conviction under §7206(1) qualified as an aggravated felony within Clause (i)'s definition "because it involved 'fraud or deceit' and because his offense resulted in a loss to the government in excess of $10,000."  Id., at 1055.  The Ninth Circuit also determined that Mrs. Kawashima's conviction under §7206(2) "necessarily 'involve[d] fraud or deceit.' "  Id., at 1055.  But because Mrs. Kawashima's plea agreement was not in the administrative record, the Ninth Circuit remanded to the Board to determine whether Mrs. Kawashima's conviction had caused a loss to the Government in excess of $10,000.  Id., at 1056-1057.
     We granted the Kawashimas' petition for a writ of certiorari to determine whether their convictions for violations of 26 U. S. C. §§7206(1) and (2) respectively qualify as aggravated felonies under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i).  563 U. S. ___ (2011).  We now affirm.
II
     The Kawashimas argue that they cannot be deported for commission of an "aggravated felony" because crimes under §§7206(1) and (2) do not "involv[e] fraud or deceit" as required by Clause (i).  The Kawashimas also assert that their convictions under §7206 are not "aggravated felonies" because tax crimes are not included within Clause (i) at all.  We address each argument in turn.
A
     The Kawashimas contend that their offenses of conviction do not fall within the scope of Clause (i) because neither "fraud" nor "deceit" is a formal element of a conviction under §7206(1) or §7206(2).  The Government responds that the Kawashimas' convictions necessarily involved deceit because they required a showing that the Kawashimas willfully made materially false statements.  To determine whether the Kawashimas' offenses "involv[e] fraud or deceit" within the meaning of Clause (i), we employ a categorical approach by looking to the statute defining the crime of conviction, rather than to the specific facts underlying the crime.  See Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U. S. 183, 186 (2007) (applying the approach set forth in Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575, 599-600 (1990)).  If the elements of the offenses establish that the Kawashimas committed crimes involving fraud or deceit, then the first requirement of Clause (i) is satisfied.3
     Mr. Kawashima was convicted of violating 26 U. S. C. §7206(1), which provides that any person who "[w]illfully makes and subscribes any return, statement, or other document, which contains or is verified by a written declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury, and which he does not believe to be true and correct as to every material matter," shall be guilty of a felony.  Mr. Kawashima does not dispute that the elements of a violation of §7206(1) include, inter alia, that the document in question was false as to a material matter, that the defendant did not believe the document to be true and correct as to every material matter, and that he acted willfully with the specific intent to violate the law.  See, e.g., United States v. Aramony, 88 F. 3d 1369, 1382 (CA4 1996); United States v. Kaiser, 893 F. 2d 1300, 1305 (CA11 1990); United States v. Marabelles, 724 F. 2d 1374, 1380 (CA9 1984); United States v. Whyte, 699 F. 2d 375, 381 (CA7 1983).  Although the words "fraud" and "deceit" are absent from the text of §7206(1) and are not themselves formal elements of the crime, it does not follow that his offense falls outside of Clause (i).  The scope of that clause is not limited to offenses that include fraud or deceit as formal elements.  Rather, Clause (i) refers more broadly to offenses that "involv[e]" fraud or deceit--meaning offenses with elements that necessarily entail fraudulent or deceitful conduct.
     When subparagraph (M) was enacted, the term "deceit" meant a "the act or process of deceiving (as by falsification, concealment, or cheating)."  Webster's Third New International Dictionary 584 (1993).  Mr. Kawashima's conviction under §7206(1) establishes that he knowingly and willfully submitted a tax return that was false as to a material matter.  He therefore committed a felony that involved "deceit."
     Turning to Mrs. Kawashima, our analysis follows a similar path.  Mrs. Kawashima was convicted of violating 26 U. S. C. §7206(2), which declares that any person who "[w]illfully aids or assists in . . . the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with any matter arising under, the internal revenue laws, of a return, affidavit, claim, or other document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter," has committed a felony.  Mrs. Kawashima does not dispute that the elements of a violation of §7206(2) include, inter alia, that the document in question was false as to a material matter and that the defendant acted willfully.  See Aramony, supra, at 1382; United States v. Sassak, 881 F. 2d 276, 278 (CA6 1989); United States v. Hooks, 848 F. 2d 785, 788-789 (CA7 1988); United States v. Dahlstrom, 713 F. 2d 1423, 1426-1427 (CA9 1983).  We conclude that Mrs. Kawashima's conviction establishes that, by knowingly and willfully assisting her husband's filing of a materially false tax return, Mrs. Kawashima also committed a felony that involved "deceit."
     The language of Clause (i) is clear.  Anyone who is convicted of an offense that "involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000" has committed an aggravated felony and is subject to deportation pursuant to 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  The elements of willfully making and subscribing a false corporate tax return, in violation of 26 U. S. C. §7206(1), and of aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false tax return, in violation of 26 U. S. C. §7206(2), establish that those crimes are deportable offenses because they necessarily entail deceit.
B
     The Kawashimas' second argument is based on inferences drawn from the interaction of Clause (i) and Clause (ii).  The full text of subparagraph (M) reads as follows:
 "(43) The term 'aggravated felony' means--
.     .     .     .     .
"(M) an offense that--
"(i) involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000; or
"(ii) is described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."
The Kawashimas argue that when Clause (i) is read together with Clause (ii), Clause (i) must be interpreted as being inapplicable to tax crimes.  In their view, subparagraph (M), when considered in its entirety, demonstrates that Congress was addressing two mutually exclusive categories of crimes in subparagraph (M)'s two clauses: general, non-tax crimes involving fraud or deceit that cause actual losses to real victims in Clause (i), and tax crimes involving revenue losses to the Government in Clause (ii).  For the reasons discussed below, this argument cannot overcome the plain language of Clause (i), which encompasses the Kawashimas' offenses of conviction.
1
     The Kawashimas contend that textual differences between Clauses (i) and (ii) indicate that Congress intended to exclude tax crimes from Clause (i).  Specifically, they note that Clause (i) addresses "loss to the victim," whereas Clause (ii) addresses "revenue loss to the Government."
     This difference in language does not establish Congress' intent to remove tax crimes from the scope of Clause (i).  Clause (i) covers a broad class of offenses that involve fraud or deceit.  Clause (i) thus uses correspondingly broad language to refer to the wide range of potential losses and victims.  Clause (ii), on the other hand, is limited to the single type of offense "described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion)," which, by definition, can only cause one type of loss (revenue loss) to one type of victim (the Government).  Congress' decision to tailor Clause (ii)'s language to match the sole type of offense covered by Clause (ii) does not demonstrate that Congress also intended to implicitly circumscribe the broad scope of Clause (i)'s plain language.
2
     Next, the Kawashimas argue that interpreting Clause (i) to include tax crimes violates the presumption against superfluities by rendering Clause (ii) completely redundant to Clause (i).  Clause (ii) explicitly states that convictions for tax evasion pursuant to 26 U. S. C. §7201 that cause a revenue loss of at least $10,000 to the Government are aggravated felonies.  The Kawashimas assert that, if Clause (i) applies to tax crimes, then qualifying convictions for tax evasion under Clause (ii) would also qualify as aggravated felonies under Clause (i), because tax evasion is a crime involving fraud or deceit.  To buttress this argument, the Kawashimas point to a body of law providing that a conviction for tax evasion under §7201 collaterally estops the convicted taxpayer from contesting a civil penalty under 26 U. S. C. §6663(b) for "underpayment . . . attributable to fraud."  See, e.g., Gray v. Commissioner, 708 F. 2d 243, 246 (CA6 1983) ("Numerous federal courts have held that a conviction for federal income tax evasion, either upon a plea of guilty, or upon a jury verdict of guilt, conclusively establishes fraud in a subsequent civil tax fraud proceeding through application of the doctrine of collateral estoppel").  Therefore, according to the Kawashimas, if Clause (i) covers tax offenses, then Clause (ii) is mere surplusage.
      We disagree with the Kawashimas' contention that the specific mention of one type of tax crime in Clause (ii) impliedly limits the scope of Clause (i)'s plain language, which extends to any offense that "involves fraud or deceit."  We think it more likely that Congress specifically included tax evasion offenses under 26 U. S. C. §7201 in Clause (ii) to remove any doubt that tax evasion qualifies as an aggravated felony.
     Several considerations support this conclusion.  Like §§7206(1) and (2), §7201 does not, on its face, mention fraud or deceit.  Instead, §7201 simply provides that "[a]ny person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by [the Internal Revenue Code] or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony."  Accordingly, neither fraud nor deceit is among the elements of a conviction under §7201, which include: (1) willfulness; (2) the existence of a tax deficiency; and (3) an affirmative act constituting an evasion or an attempted evasion of the tax.  Boulware v. United States, 552 U. S. 421, 424, n. 2 (2008).  A conviction under §7201, therefore, only qualifies as an aggravated felony under Clause (i) if a willful, affirmative attempt to evade a tax necessarily entails fraud or deceit.
     This Court's decision in United States v. Scharton, 285 U. S. 518 (1932), gave Congress good reason to doubt that a conviction under §7201 satisfies that condition.  In Scharton, the defendant was indicted for attempting to evade income taxes by falsely understating his taxable income.  The question before the Court was whether the crime was subject to the 3-year statute of limitations generally applicable to tax crimes, or whether it was instead subject to the 6-year statute of limitations applicable to " 'offenses involving the defrauding or attempting to defraud the United States or any agency thereof, whether by conspiracy or not, and in any manner.' "  Id., at 520, n. 2 (quoting 18 U. S. C. §585 (1962 ed., Supp. V)).  The Government argued that the 6-year statute of limitations applied because "fraud is implicit in the concept of evading or defeating" and because any effort to evade a tax is tantamount to an attempt to defraud the taxing body.  285 U. S., at 520-521.  The Court rejected that argument, noting that, in an indictment for evasion, "an averment [of intent to defraud] would be surplusage, for it would be sufficient to plead and prove a willful attempt to evade or defeat."  Id., at 521.
     Moreover, §7201 includes two offenses: "the offense of willfully attempting to evade or defeat the assessment of a tax as well as the offense of willfully attempting to evade or defeat the payment of a tax."  Sansone v. United States, 380 U. S. 343, 354 (1965) (emphasis in original).  As the Government notes, it is possible to willfully evade or defeat payment of a tax under §7201 without making any misrepresentation.  For example, §7201 can be violated by a taxpayer who files a truthful tax return, but who also takes affirmative steps to evade payment by moving his assets beyond the reach of the Internal Revenue Service.  Although the Government concedes that evasion-of-payment cases will almost invariably involve some affirmative acts of fraud or deceit, it is still true that the elements of tax evasion pursuant to §7201 do not necessarily involve fraud or deceit.  Thus, we conclude that the specific inclusion of tax evasion in Clause (ii) was intended to ensure that tax evasion pursuant to §7201 was a deportable offense.  Clause (ii) does not implicitly remove all other tax offenses from the scope of Clause (i)'s plain language.
3
     The Kawashimas also assert that the separate treatment of tax crimes and crimes involving fraud and deceit in the United State Sentencing Guidelines supports their contention that Congress did not intend to include tax crimes within Clause (i).  They point to the fact that, in 1987, the United States Sentencing Commission included within the Guidelines a category of "offenses involving fraud or deceit."  USSG §§2F1.1 to 2F1.2 (deleted effective Nov. 1, 2001).  The Commission simultaneously included "offenses involving taxation" as a separate category.  §§2T1.1 et seq. (Nov. 2011).  Although the Kawashimas acknowledge that they have found no evidence that Congress actually considered the Guidelines, they contend that "it is likely that the language of [Clause (i)] and [Clause (ii)] was taken from the Sentencing Guidelines" by the sponsors of the bill that expanded the definition of aggravated felony to include subparagraph (M).  Brief for Petitioners 29.  Therefore, the theory goes, we can infer from the similar language in the Guidelines that Congress did not intend Clause (i) to include tax crimes.
     We reject the Kawashimas' reliance on the Guidelines.  The Kawashimas' argument is at odds with the fact that, unlike the Guideline that the Kawashimas cite, Clause (ii) does not refer to all offenses "involving taxation."  Rather, Clause (ii) is expressly limited to tax evasion offenses under §7201.  That textual difference undercuts any inference that Congress was considering, much less incorporating, the distinction drawn by the Guidelines.
C
     Finally, the Kawashimas argue that subparagraph (M)'s treatment of tax crimes other than tax evasion is ambiguous, and that we should therefore construe the statute in their favor.  It is true that we have, in the past, construed ambiguities in deportation statutes in the alien's favor.  See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 320 (2001).  We think the application of the present statute clear enough that resort to the rule of lenity is not warranted.
*  *  *
     For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that convictions under 26 U. S. C. §§7206(1) and (2) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000 qualify as aggravated felonies pursuant to 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i).  Because the Kawashimas are subject to deportation as aliens who have been convicted of aggravated felonies pursuant to 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), the judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

Ginsburg, J., dissenting
 565 U. S. ____ (2012)
No. 10-577
AKIO KAWASHIMA, et ux., PETITIONERS v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[February 21, 2012]

     Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.
     Petitioner Akio Kawashima was convicted of preparing a false corporate tax return in violation of 26 U. S. C. §7206(1).  His wife, petitioner Fusako Kawashima, was convicted under §7206(2) of assisting her husband in preparing the false return.  The question presented is whether a conviction under §7206 is an "aggravated felony" that renders the Kawashimas deportable from the United States.  See 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).
     Congress has defined "aggravated felony" to include, inter alia, offenses that "(i) involv[e] fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000" or "(ii) [are] described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."  §1101(a)(43)(M).  The Kawashimas argue that tax offenses triggering deportation are delineated exclusively in §1101(a)(43)(M)(ii) (or Clause (ii)), and that §1101(a)(43)(M)(i) (or Clause (i)) does not encompass tax crimes.  The Court rejects this argument, and holds that any tax offense "involv[ing] fraud or deceit," if the loss to the fisc exceeds $10,000, ranks as an "aggravated fel-ony."  See ante, at 11.  Because the Kawashimas' tax offense involved deceit and meets the monetary threshold, the Court concludes, they have committed an aggravated felony and are therefore deportable.
     The Court's construction of the statute is dubious, as I see it.  For one thing, it effectively renders Clause (ii) superfluous.  Further, the Court's reading sweeps a wide variety of federal, state, and local tax offenses--including misdemeanors--into the "aggravated felony" category.  In addition, today's decision may discourage aliens from pleading guilty to tax offenses less grave than tax evasion, thereby complicating and delaying enforcement of the internal revenue laws.  I conclude that Clause (i) does not address tax offenses, and would therefore hold that making a false statement on a tax return in violation of §7206 is not an "aggravated felony."
I
     Any alien convicted of an "aggravated felony" after admission to the United States is deportable.  8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  Subparagraph (M) of §1101(a)(43) includes as an "aggravated felony":
"an offense that--
     "(i) involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000; or 
     "(ii) is described in section 7201 of title 26 (relating to tax evasion) in which the revenue loss to the Government exceeds $10,000."
     Notably, Clause (i) speaks of "loss to the victim," Clause (ii) of "revenue loss to the Government."  The Kawashimas contend that Clause (i) covers crimes of fraud or deceit causing losses unrelated to tax revenue.  Tax crimes, they argue, are addressed exclusively in Clause (ii), and that clause designates only tax evasion proscribed by 26 U. S. C. §7201 as an "aggravated felony."  Willfully submitting a false statement proscribed by §7206, the Kawashimas maintain, is not an "aggravated felony" that would render them deportable under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii). 
     The Government contends that Clause (i) covers all tax offenses involving fraud or deceit, and that Congress included Clause (ii) out of caution, to make certain that persons convicted of tax evasion would be subject to deportation.  Under the Government's construction, because the crime of making a false statement on a tax return involves "fraud" or "deceit," the Kawashimas committed an aggravated felony.  See ante, at 5 ("the words 'fraud' and 'deceit' are absent from the text of §7206(1) and are not themselves formal elements of the crime," nonetheless, "[the] elements [of a §7206 crime] necessarily entail fraudulent or deceitful conduct").
     The Court's task is to determine which reading of the statute is correct.  If the two proffered constructions of subparagraph (M) are plausible in roughly equal measure, then our precedent directs us to construe the statute in the Kawashimas' favor.       See Fong Haw Tan v. Phelan, 333 U. S. 6, 10 (1948) ("We resolve the doubts in favor of [the alien] because deportation is a drastic measure . . . ."); INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 320 (2001) (same).
II
A
In interpreting 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M), I would rely upon the familiar canon that statutes should be interpreted to avoid superfluity.  See Corley v. United States, 556 U. S. 303, 314 (2009) (quoting Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U. S. 88, 101 (2004) ("[O]ne of the most basic interpretive canons" is that a "statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant . . . .")).  If Clause (i) is construed to apply to tax crimes, then Clause (ii)'s discrete inclusion of tax evasion would add nothing, for tax evasion is itself an offense that, in all actual instances of which the Government is aware, "involves fraud or deceit."  See §1101(a)(43)(M)(i); Tr. of Oral Arg. 30-31.
     The elements of tax evasion are the existence of a tax deficiency, willfulness, and "an affirmative act constituting an evasion or attempted evasion of the tax."  Sansone v. United States, 380 U. S. 343, 351 (1965).  As this Court's decisions indicate, the evasion of taxes involves deceit or fraud upon the Government, achieved by concealing a tax liability or misleading the Government as to the extent of the liability.  See, e.g., Spies v. United States, 317 U. S. 492, 499 (1943) (an act of tax evasion may be "any conduct, the likely effect of which would be to mislead or to conceal").  Accordingly, courts have determined that tax evasion is a crime of moral turpitude, because it necessarily involves fraud.  See, e.g., Carty v. Ashcroft, 395 F. 3d 1081, 1085, n. 7 (CA9 2005) (fraud is "implicit in the nature of the crime" of tax evasion); Considine v. United States, 683 F. 2d 1285, 1287 (CA9 1982) ("The express language of section 7201 requires an intent to avoid tax (a legitimate synonym for fraud)."); Costello v. INS, 311 F. 2d 343, 348 (CA2 1962) ("There can be no 'wilful' [tax] evasion without a specific intent to defraud."), rev'd on other grounds, 376 U. S. 120 (1964).
     Even more to the point, courts have held that a conviction for tax evasion under 26 U. S. C. §7201 "conclusively establishes fraud in a subsequent civil tax fraud proceeding."  Gray v. Commissioner, 708 F. 2d 243, 246 (CA6 1983); see Klein v. Commissioner, 880 F. 2d 260, 262 (CA10 1989) (conviction under 7201 "collaterally estops a taxpayer from denying fraud [in a] civil tax case involving the same years").1  This preclusive effect obtains, courts have explained, because " 'willful' [tax evasion] includes all of the elements of fraud."  Tomlinson v. Lefkowitz, 334 F. 2d 262, 265 (CA5 1964); see Gray, 708 F. 2d, at 246 ("The elements of criminal tax evasion and civil tax fraud are identical."); Moore v. United States, 360 F. 2d 353, 356 (CA4 1966) ("[W]hile the criminal evasion statute does not explicitly require a finding of fraud, the case-by-case process of construction of the civil [fraud] and criminal tax provisions has demonstrated that their constituent elements are identical.").
     Tax offenses span a wide range, from failure to file a tax return, 26 U. S. C. §7203, to the unauthorized use of tax stamps, §7209.  But "the gravest of offenses against the revenues," this Court has said, the "capstone" of tax law violations, is tax evasion.  Spies, 317 U. S., at 497, 499; see Boulware v. United States, 552 U. S. 421, 424 (2008).  Tellingly, the Kawashimas pleaded guilty to a crime carrying a maximum prison term of three years, §7206; for tax evasion, the maximum term is five years, §7201.  It is thus understandable that Congress would single out tax evasion, as it did in Clause (ii), specifically designating it, and no other tax crime, an "aggravated felony" for deportation purposes.
     The Court ascribes a different purpose to Clause (ii).  Tax evasion, made criminal by §7201, the Court states, "almost invariably," but "not necessarily[,] involve[s] fraud or deceit."  Ante, at 10.  But see supra, at 4 and this page.  Congress likely included Clause (ii), the Court suggests, simply "to remove any doubt that tax evasion qualifies as an aggravated felony."  Ante, at 8.  In other words, in holding that Clause (i) includes tax offenses, the Court finds Clause (ii) largely, but not totally, redundant.
     In support of the notion that tax evasion can occur without fraud or deceit, the Court cites United States v. Scharton, 285 U. S. 518 (1932); see ante, at 9.  In that long-obsolete case, the Court rejected the Government's plea for the application of an extended limitation period to a prosecution for tax evasion.  The generally applicable statute of limitations was three years; for tax offenses that involve defrauding the United States, however, the limitation period was six years.  An averment of intent to defraud, the Court said in Scharton, would be "surplusage," for it would suffice "to plead and prove a wilful attempt to evade or defeat."  285 U. S., at 521.
     Courts had limited Scharton to its statute of limitations context several decades before Congress enacted §1101(a)(43)(M) in 1994.  See Tseung Chu v. Cornell, 247 F. 2d 929, 936, n. 6 (CA9 1957) (distinguishing Scharton and holding that tax evasion is a crime of moral turpitude because it entails fraud); Lefkowitz, 334 F. 2d, at 265 (distinguishing Scharton and holding that tax evasion necessarily involves fraud).  Moreover, Congress, since 1954, has expressly prescribed a six-year limitation period for tax evasion.  See 26 U. S. C. §6531(2).  In short, Scharton is a cryptic, thinly reasoned opinion, one that did not influence subsequent federal-court description of the crime of tax evasion.  The suggestion that Congress may have worried about Scharton when framing legislation over 60 years later is hardly credible.
     The Court presents another reason, drawn from the Government's brief, why Congress may have treated tax evasion discretely, while embracing tax crimes generally within the Clause (i) category.  Section 7201 covers both evasion of assessment and evasion of payment.  Imagine a taxpayer who files a truthful return, then moves her assets to a place "beyond the reach of the Internal Revenue Service."  Ante, at 10; see Brief for Respondent 34.  The Court acknowledges that evasion-of-payment cases almost always "involve some affirmative acts of fraud or deceit."  Ante, at 10.  Still, there may be a rare case in which that is not so.  Rare, indeed; imaginary would be an apt characterization.  The Government conceded that, to its knowledge, there have been no actual instances of indictments for tax evasion unaccompanied by any act of fraud or deceit.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 30-31.
     The canon that statutes should be interpreted to avoid superfluity cannot be skirted as easily as the Government here urges.  We have declined to interpret legislation in a way that "would in practical effect render [a provision] entirely superfluous in all but the most unusual circumstances."  TRW Inc. v. Andrews, 534 U. S. 19, 29 (2001).  It is hardly sufficient for the Government to hypothesize a case in which the provision might have some independent role.  See id., at 30.  Where, as here, "the Government concede[s] that the independent function one could attribute to the [provision] would [rarely] arise," a construction moored to a case "most unlikely" to exist should be rejected.  Id., at 31.  It is highly improbable that "a proviso accounting for more than half of [the] text" of §1101(a)(43)(M), i.e., Clause (ii), "would lie dormant in all but the most unlikely situations."  See 534 U. S., at 31.
     Congress' aim in drafting §1101(a)(43) was to determine which crimes are sufficiently serious to warrant the "drastic measure" of deportation, and which are not.  See Fong Haw Tan, 333 U. S., at 10.  It is implausible that Congress, when drafting §1101(a)(43)(M), intended to address, or was even aware of, the Government's scenario: a taxpayer who files a truthful return, then, to thwart collection of the tax due, moves all her assets offshore.  Far more likely, Congress did not intend to include tax offenses in §1101(a)(43)(M)(i), but instead drafted that provision to address fraudulent schemes against private victims, then added §1101(a)(43)(M)(ii) so that the "capstone" tax offense against the Government also qualified as an aggravated felony.  See supra, at 5.
B
     The Court's construction of the statute is even less plausible given the numerous offenses it would rank as "aggravated felon[ies]."  Many federal tax offenses, like 26 U. S. C. §7206, involve false statements or misleading conduct.  See, e.g., §7202 (failing to truthfully account for and pay taxes owed).  Conviction of any of these offenses, if the Court's construction were correct, would render an alien deportable.  So would conviction of state and local tax offenses involving false statements.  Ferreira v. Ashcroft, 390 F. 3d 1091, 1096-1097 (CA9 2004) (state-law offenses qualify as offenses involving fraud or deceit under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)); see, e.g., Del. Code Ann., Tit. 30, §574 (2009) (submitting a tax return false as to any material matter is a criminal offense); D. C. Code §47-4106 (2001-2005) (same); Ala. Code §40-29-114 (2003) (same); Va. Code Ann. §58.1-1815 (2009) (willfully failing to account truthfully for and pay certain taxes is a criminal offense).
     Rendering all tax offenses involving false statements "aggravated felon[ies]" that subject an alien to deportation is all the more problematic, for many of these offenses are misdemeanors.  Among federal misdemeanors, see, e.g., 26 U. S. C. §7204 ("furnish[ing] a false" W-2 form to an employee); §7205 ("suppl[ying] false or fraudulent information" to an employer); §7207 (filing a return "known . . . to be false as to any material matter").  On the state and local level, see, e.g., Cal. Rev. &  Tax. Code Ann. §1610.4 (West 1998) ("Every person who wilfully states anything which he knows to be false in any oral or written statement, not under oath, required or authorized to be made as the basis of an application to reduce any tax or assessment, is guilty of a misdemeanor."); N. D. Cent. Code Ann. §57-37.116 (Lexis 2011) ("Every person who willfully and knowingly subscribes or makes any false statement of facts [on an estate tax return] . . . is guilty of a class A misdemeanor."); Columbus, Ohio City Code §§361.31(a)(4), (b), (d) (2009) (any person who "knowingly make[s] and file[s] an incomplete, false or fraudulent [municipal] return" is guilty of a fourth-degree misdemeanor).  Nor would the $10,000 threshold set in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M) prevent deportation for tax crimes far less serious than willful tax evasion, for as many as six years may be included in the amount-of-loss calculation.  See 26 U. S. C. §6531 (setting a six-year statute of limitations for, inter alia, tax crimes involving fraud or falsity); Brief for Johnnie M. Walters as Amicus Curiae 15-16 (hereinafter Walters Brief).2
     Finally, the Court's decision has adverse consequences for the efficient handling of tax prosecutions.  It is often easier for the Government to obtain a conviction under §7206 (false statements) than under §7201 (tax evasion).  See United States v. Olgin, 745 F. 2d 263, 272 (CA3 1984) (unlike a conviction under §7201, a conviction under §7206 does not require proof of a tax deficiency); Considine, 683 F. 2d, at 1287 (unlike a conviction under §7201, a conviction under §7206 does not require proof of an attempt to escape a tax).  For this reason, the Government has allowed taxpayers to plead guilty to a §7206 charge in lieu of going to trial under §7201 on an evasion charge.  See Walters Brief 19-20.  Deportation consequences are important to aliens facing criminal charges.  See Padilla v. Kentucky, 559 U. S. __, __ (2010) (slip op., at 10) ("[P]reserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence." (quoting St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322)).  If a §7206 charge carries the same prospect of deportation as a §7201 charge, then an alien's incentive to plead guilty to any tax offense is significantly reduced.
*  *  *
     For the reasons stated, I would hold that making a material, false statement on a tax return does not qualify as an aggravated felony within the compass of 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i).  I would therefore reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 On March 1, 2003, most of the functions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service were transferred to the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service ceased to exist.
Footnote 2 Before 1996, there were two procedures for removing aliens from the country: "deportation" of aliens who were already present, and "exclusion" of aliens seeking entry or reentry into the country.  Since 1996, the Government has used a unified procedure, known as "removal," for both exclusion and deportation.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1229, 1229a.  We use the terms "deportation" and "removal" interchangeably in this opinion.
Footnote 3 We note that the issue whether the Kawashimas' offenses satisfy the second requirement of Clause (i)--that the loss to the victim exceeded $10,000--is not before us.  We address only whether their offenses of conviction qualify as crimes "involv[ing] fraud or deceit."
FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 See also, e.g., Blohm v. Commissioner, 994 F. 2d 1542, 1554 (CA11 1993); Fontneau v. United States, 654 F. 2d 8, 10 (CA1 1981) (per curiam); Plunkett v. Commissioner, 465 F. 2d 299, 307 (CA7 1972).
Footnote 2 One might also ask what reason Congress would have for making a tax misdemeanor a deportable offense, while more serious crimes do not jeopardize an alien's residency in the United States.  See, e.g., Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 11-12 (2004) (driving while drunk, causing serious bodily injury to others is not an aggravated felony).





United States Supreme Court
JUDULANG v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2011)
No. 10-694
Argued: October 12, 2011    Decided: December 12, 2011


Federal immigration law governs both the exclusion of aliens from admission to this country and the deportation of aliens previously admitted.  Before 1996, these two kinds of action occurred in different procedural settings; since then, the Government has employed a unified "removal proceeding" for exclusions and deportations alike.  But the immigration laws have always provided separate lists of substantive grounds for the two actions.  One list specifies what crimes render an alien excludable, see 8 U. S. C. §1182(a), while another--sometimes overlapping and sometimes divergent--list specifies what crimes render an alien deportable, see §1227(a).
          Until repealed in 1996, §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act permitted the Attorney General to grant discretionary relief to an excludable alien, if the alien had lawfully resided in the United States for at least seven years before temporarily leaving the country and if the alien was not excludable on one of two specified grounds.  By its terms, §212(c) applied only in exclusion proceedings, but the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) extended it decades ago to deportation proceedings as well.  Although Congress substituted a narrower discretionary remedy for §212(c) in 1996, see §1229b, §212(c)'s broader relief remains available to an alien whose removal is based on a guilty plea entered before §212(c)'s repeal, INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 326.
          In deciding whether to exclude such an alien, the BIA first checks the statutory ground identified by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as the basis for exclusion.  Unless that ground is one of the two falling outside §212(c)'s scope, the alien is eligible for discretionary relief.  The BIA then determines whether to grant relief based on such factors as the seriousness of the offense.
          This case concerns the BIA's method for applying §212(c) in the deportation context.  The BIA's approach, known as the "comparable-grounds" rule, evaluates whether the charged deportation ground has a close analogue in the statute's list of exclusion grounds.  If the deportation ground consists of a set of crimes "substantially equivalent" to the set making up an exclusion ground, the alien can seek §212(c) relief.  But if the deportation ground covers different or more or fewer offenses than any exclusion ground, the alien is ineligible for relief, even if the alien's particular offense falls within an exclusion ground.
          Petitioner Judulang, who has lived continuously in the United States as a lawful permanent resident since 1974, pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter in 1988.  After he pleaded guilty to another crime in 2005, DHS commenced a deportation action, charging him with having committed an "aggravated felony" involving "a crime of violence" based on his manslaughter conviction.   The Immigration Judge ordered Judulang's deportation, and the BIA affirmed, finding Judulang ineligible for §212(c) relief because the "crime of violence" deportation ground is not comparable to any exclusion ground.  The Ninth Circuit, having previously upheld the BIA's comparable-grounds rule, denied Judulang's petition for review.
Held: The BIA's policy for applying §212(c) in deportation cases is "arbitrary and capricious" under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. §706(2)(A).  Pp. 9-21.
     (a) While agencies have expertise and experience in administering their statutes that no court may properly ignore, courts retain a narrow but important role in ensuring that agencies have engaged in reasoned decisionmaking.  Thus, in reviewing the BIA's action, this Court must assess, among other matters, "whether the decision was based on a consideration of the relevant factors and whether there has been a clear error of judgment." Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U. S. 29, 43.  That task involves examining the reasons for agency decisions, or the absence of such reasons.
     The comparable-grounds approach cannot survive scrutiny under this standard.  By hinging a deportable alien's eligibility for discretionary relief on the chance correspondence between statutory categories--a matter irrelevant to the alien's fitness to reside in this country--the BIA has failed to exercise its discretion in a reasoned manner.  Pp. 9-10.
     (b) Even if the BIA has legitimate reasons for limiting §212(c)'s scope in deportation cases, it must do so in some rational way.  In other words, the BIA must use an approach that is tied to the purposes of the immigration laws or the appropriate operation of the immigration system.  The comparable-grounds rule has no connection to these factors.  Instead, it makes §212(c) eligibility turn on an irrelevant comparison between statutory provisions.  Whether the set of offenses in a particular deportation ground lines up with the set in an exclusion ground has nothing to do with whether a deportable alien whose prior conviction falls within both grounds merits the ability to stay in this country.  Here, Judulang was found ineligible for §212(c) relief because the "crime of violence" deportation ground includes a few offenses--simple assault, minor burglary, and unauthorized use of a vehicle--not found in the similar moral turpitude exclusion ground.  But the inclusion of simple assaults and minor burglaries in the deportation ground is irrelevant to the merits of Judulang's case.
     The BIA's approach has other odd features.  In applying the comparable-grounds rule, the BIA has denied relief to aliens whose deportation ground fits entirely within a much broader exclusion ground.  Yet providing relief in exclusion cases to a broad class of aliens hardly justifies denying relief in deportation cases to a subset of that group.  In addition, the outcome of the comparable-grounds analysis may itself rest on an arbitrary decision.  An alien's prior conviction could fall within a number of deportation grounds, only one of which corresponds to an exclusion ground.  In such cases, an alien's eligibility for relief would hinge on an individual official's decision as to which deportation ground to charge.  An alien appearing before one official may suffer deportation, while an identically situated alien appearing before another may gain the right to stay in this country.
     In short, the comparable-grounds approach does not rest on any factors relevant to whether an alien should be deported. Instead, it turns deportation decisions into a "sport of chance."  Rosenberg v. Fleuti, 374 U. S. 449, 455.  That is what the APA's "arbitrary and capricious" standard is designed to prevent.  Pp. 10-15.
     (c) The Government's arguments in defense of the comparable-grounds rule are not persuasive.  First, §212(c)'s text does not support the rule.  That section cannot provide a textual anchor for any method of providing discretionary relief in deportation cases because it addresses only exclusion.  Second, the history of the comparable-grounds rule does not work in the Government's favor.  The BIA repeatedly vacillated in its method for applying §212(c) to deportable aliens, settling on the current rule only in 2005.  Third, the Government's claim that the comparable-grounds rule saves time and money falls short.  Cost may be an important factor for agencies to consider in many contexts, but cheapness alone cannot save an arbitrary agency policy.  In any event, it is unclear that the comparable-grounds rule saves money when compared with alternative approaches.  Pp. 16-21.
249 Fed. Appx. 499, reversed and remanded.
     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Opinion of the Court
 565 U. S. ____ (2011)
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.
No. 10-694
JOEL JUDULANG, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER,Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[December 12, 2011]

     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.
     This case concerns the Board of Immigration Appeals' (BIA or Board) policy for deciding when resident aliens may apply to the Attorney General for relief from deportation under a now-repealed provision of the immigration laws.  We hold that the BIA's approach is arbitrary and capricious.
     The legal background of this case is complex, but the principle guiding our decision is anything but.  When an administrative agency sets policy, it must provide a reasoned explanation for its action.  That is not a high bar, but it is an unwavering one.  Here, the BIA has failed to meet it.
I
A
     Federal immigration law governs both the exclusion of aliens from admission to this country and the deportation of aliens previously admitted.  Before 1996, these two kinds of action occurred in different procedural settings, with an alien seeking entry (whether for the first time or upon return from a trip abroad) placed in an "exclusion proceeding" and an alien already here channeled to a "deportation proceeding."  See Landon v. Plasencia, 459 U. S. 21, 25-26 (1982) (comparing the two).  Since that time, the Government has used a unified procedure, known as a "removal proceeding," for exclusions and deportations alike.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1229, 1229a.  But the statutory bases for excluding and deporting aliens have always varied.  Now, as before, the immigration laws provide two separate lists of substantive grounds, principally involving criminal offenses, for these two actions.  One list specifies what kinds of crime render an alien excludable (or in the term the statute now uses, "inadmissible"), see §1182(a) (2006 ed., Supp. IV), while another--sometimes overlapping and sometimes divergent--list specifies what kinds of crime render an alien deportable from the country, see §1227(a).
     An additional, historic difference between exclusion and deportation cases involved the ability of the Attorney General to grant an alien discretionary relief.  Until repealed in 1996, §212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 66 Stat. 187, 8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.), authorized the Attorney General to admit certain excludable aliens.  See also §136(p) (1926 ed.) (predecessor provision to §212(c)).  The Attorney General could order this relief when the alien had lawfully resided in the United States for at least seven years before temporarily leaving the country, unless the alien was excludable on one of two specified grounds.  See §1182(c) (1994 ed.).1  But by its terms, §212(c) did not apply when an alien was being deported.
     This discrepancy threatened to produce an odd result in a case called Matter of L-, 1 I. & N. Dec. 1 (1940), leading to the first-ever grant of discretionary relief in a deportation case.  L- was a permanent resident of the United States who had been convicted of larceny.  Although L-'s crime made him inadmissible, he traveled abroad and then returned to the United States without any immigration official's preventing his entry.  A few months later, the Government caught up with L- and initiated a deportation action based on his larceny conviction.  Had the Government apprehended L- at the border a short while earlier, he would have been placed in an exclusion proceeding where he could have applied for discretionary relief.  But because L- was instead in a deportation proceeding, no such relief was available.  Responding to this apparent anomaly, Attorney General Robert Jackson (on referral of the case from the BIA) determined that L- could receive a waiver: L-, Jackson said, "should be permitted to make the same appeal to discretion that he could have made if denied admission" when returning from his recent trip.  Id., at 6.  In accord with this decision, the BIA adopted a policy of allowing aliens in deportation proceedings to apply for discretionary relief under §212(c) whenever they had left and reentered the country after becoming deportable.  See Matter of S-, 6 I. & N. Dec. 392, 394-396 (1954).
     But this approach created another peculiar asymmetry: Deportable aliens who had traveled abroad and returned could receive §212(c) relief, while those who had never left could not.  In Francis v. INS, 532 F. 2d 268 (1976), the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit concluded that this disparity violated equal protection.  Id., at 273 ("[A]n alien whose ties with this country are so strong that he has never departed after his initial entry should receive at least as much consideration as an individual who may leave and return from time to time").  The BIA acquiesced in the Second Circuit's decision, see Matter of Silva, 16 I. & N. Dec. 26 (1976), thus applying §212(c) in deportation proceedings regardless of an alien's travel history.
     All this might have become academic when Congress repealed §212(c) in 1996 and substituted a new discretionary remedy, known as "cancellation of removal," which is available in a narrow range of circumstances to excludable and deportable aliens alike.  See 8 U. S. C. §1229b.  But in INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 326 (2001), this Court concluded that the broader relief afforded by §212(c) must remain available, on the same terms as before, to an alien whose removal is based on a guilty plea entered before §212(c)'s repeal.  We reasoned that aliens had agreed to those pleas with the possibility of discretionary relief in mind and that eliminating this prospect would ill comport with " 'familiar considerations of fair notice, reasonable reliance, and settled expectations.' "  Id., at 323 (quoting Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 270 (1994)).  Accordingly, §212(c) has had an afterlife for resident aliens with old criminal convictions.
     When the BIA is deciding whether to exclude such an alien, applying §212(c) is an easy matter.  The Board first checks the statutory ground that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has identified as the basis for exclusion; the Board may note, for example, that DHS has charged the alien with previously committing a "crime involving moral turpitude," see 8 U. S. C. §1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I).  Unless the charged ground is one of the pair falling outside §212(c)'s scope, see n. 1, supra, the alien is eligible for discretionary relief.  The Board then determines whether to grant that relief based on such factors as "the seriousness of the offense, evidence of either rehabilitation or recidivism, the duration of the alien's residence, the impact of deportation on the family, the number of citizens in the family, and the character of any service in the Armed Forces."  St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 296, n. 5.
     By contrast, when the BIA is deciding whether to deport an alien, applying §212(c) becomes a tricky business.  Recall that §212(c) applies on its face only to exclusion decisions.  So the question arises: How is the BIA to determine when an alien should receive §212(c) relief in the deportation context?
     One approach that the BIA formerly used considered how the alien would fare in an exclusion proceeding.  To perform this analysis, the Board would first determine whether the criminal conviction making the alien deportable fell within a statutory ground for exclusion.  Almost all convictions did so, largely because the "crime involving moral turpitude" ground encompasses so many offenses.2  Assuming that threshold inquiry were met, the Board would mimic its approach in exclusion cases--first making sure the statutory ground at issue was not excepted from §212(c) and then conducting the multi-factor analysis.  See Matter of Tanori, 15 I. & N. Dec. 566, 567-568 (1976); In re Manzueta, No. A93 022 672, 2003 WL 23269892 (BIA, Dec. 1, 2003).
     A second approach is the one challenged here; definitively adopted in 2005 (after decades of occasional use), it often is called the "comparable-grounds" rule.  See, e.g., De la Rosa v. U. S. Attorney General, 579 F. 3d 1327, 1332 (CA11 2009).  That approach evaluates whether the ground for deportation charged in a case has a close analogue in the statute's list of exclusion grounds.  See In re Blake, 23 I. & N. Dec. 722, 728 (2005); In re Brieva-Perez, 23 I. & N. Dec. 766, 772-773 (2005).3  If the deportation ground consists of a set of crimes "substantially equivalent" to the set of offenses making up an exclusion ground, then the alien can seek §212(c) relief.  Blake, 23 I. & N. Dec., at 728.  But if the deportation ground charged covers significantly different or more or fewer offenses than any exclusion ground, the alien is not eligible for a waiver.  Such a divergence makes §212(c) inapplicable even if the particular offense committed by the alien falls within an exclusion ground.
     Two contrasting examples from the BIA's cases may help to illustrate this approach.  Take first an alien convicted of conspiring to distribute cocaine, whom DHS seeks to deport on the ground that he has committed an "aggravated felony" involving "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance."  8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(B), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  Under the comparable-grounds rule, the immigration judge would look to see if that deportation ground covers substantially the same offenses as an exclusion ground.  And according to the BIA in Matter of Meza, 20 I. & N. Dec. 257 (1991), the judge would find an adequate match--the exclusion ground applicable to aliens who have committed offenses "relating to a controlled substance," 8 U. S. C. §§1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(II) and (a)(2)(C).
     Now consider an alien convicted of first-degree sexual abuse of a child, whom DHS wishes to deport on the ground that he has committed an "aggravated felony" involving "sexual abuse of a minor."  §§1101(a)(43)(A), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  May this alien seek §212(c) relief ?  According to the BIA, he may not do so--not because his crime is too serious (that is irrelevant to the analysis), but instead because no statutory ground of exclusion covers substantially the same offenses.  To be sure, the alien's own offense is a "crime involving moral turpitude," 8 U. S. C. §1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I), and so fits within an exclusion ground.  Indeed, that will be true of most or all offenses included in this deportation category.  See supra, at 5. But on the BIA's view, the "moral turpitude" exclusion ground "addresses a distinctly different and much broader category of offenses than the aggravated felony sexual abuse of a minor charge."  Blake, 23 I. & N. Dec., at 728.  And the much greater sweep of the exclusion ground prevents the alien from seeking discretionary relief from deportation.4
     Those mathematically inclined might think of the comparable-grounds approach as employing Venn diagrams.  Within one circle are all the criminal offenses composing the particular ground of deportation charged.  Within other circles are the offenses composing the various exclusion grounds.  When, but only when, the "deportation circle" sufficiently corresponds to one of the "exclusion circles" may an alien apply for §212(c) relief.
B
     Petitioner Joel Judulang is a native of the Philippines who entered the United States in 1974 at the age of eight.  Since that time, he has lived continuously in this country as a lawful permanent resident.  In 1988, Judulang took part in a fight in which another person shot and killed someone.  Judulang was charged as an accessory and eventually pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter.  He received a 6-year suspended sentence and was released on probation immediately after his plea.
     In 2005, after Judulang pleaded guilty to another criminal offense (this one involving theft), DHS commenced an action to deport him.  DHS charged Judulang with having committed an "aggravated felony" involving "a crime of violence," based on his old manslaughter conviction.  8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(F), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).5  The Immigration Judge ordered Judulang's deportation, and the BIA affirmed.  As part of its decision, the BIA considered whether Judulang could apply for §212(c) relief.  It held that he could not do so because the "crime of violence" deportation ground is not comparable to any exclusion ground, including the one for crimes involving moral turpitude.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 8a.  The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit denied Judulang's petition for review in reliance on circuit precedent upholding the BIA's comparable-grounds approach.  Judulang v. Gonzales, 249 Fed. Appx. 499, 502 (2007) (citing Abebe v. Gonzales, 493 F. 3d 1092 (2007)).
     We granted certiorari, 563 U. S. ___ (2011), to resolve a circuit split on the approach's validity.6  We now reverse.
II
     This case requires us to decide whether the BIA's policy for applying §212(c) in deportation cases is "arbitrary [or] capricious" under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C. §706(2)(A).7  The scope of our review under this standard is "narrow"; as we have often recognized, "a court is not to substitute its judgment for that of the agency."  Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U. S. 29, 43 (1983); see Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U. S. 402, 416 (1971).  Agencies, the BIA among them, have expertise and experience in administering their statutes that no court can properly ignore.  But courts retain a role, and an important one, in ensuring that agencies have engaged in reasoned decisionmaking.  When reviewing an agency action, we must assess, among other matters, " 'whether the decision was based on a consideration of the relevant factors and whether there has been a clear error of judgment.' "  State Farm, 463 U. S., at 43 (quoting Bowman Transp., Inc. v. Arkansas-Best Freight System, Inc., 419 U. S. 281, 285 (1974)).  That task involves examining the reasons for agency decisions--or, as the case may be, the absence of such reasons.  See FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 556 U. S. 502, 515 (2009) (noting "the requirement that an agency provide reasoned explanation for its action").
     The BIA has flunked that test here.  By hinging a deportable alien's eligibility for discretionary relief on the chance correspondence between statutory categories--a matter irrelevant to the alien's fitness to reside in this country--the BIA has failed to exercise its discretion in a reasoned manner.
A
     The parties here spend much time disputing whether the BIA must make discretionary relief available to deportable and excludable aliens on identical terms.  As this case illustrates, the comparable-grounds approach does not do so.  If Judulang were seeking entry to this country, he would be eligible for §212(c) relief; voluntary manslaughter is "a crime involving moral turpitude," and so his conviction falls within an exclusion ground.  But Judulang cannot apply for relief from deportation because the "crime of violence" ground charged in his case does not match any exclusion ground (including the one for "turpitudinous" crimes).  See infra, at 13.  Judulang argues that this disparity is impermissible because any disparity between excludable and deportable aliens is impermissible: If an alien may seek §212(c) relief in an exclusion case, he also must be able to seek such relief in a deportation case.  See Brief for Petitioner 47-51.8  But the Government notes that the immigration laws have always drawn distinctions between exclusion and deportation.  See Brief for Respondent 51.  And the Government presses a policy reason for making §212(c) relief more readily available in exclusion cases.  Doing so, it argues, will provide an incentive for some resident aliens (i.e., those eligible for a waiver from exclusion, but not deportation) to report themselves to immigration officials, by applying for advance permission to exit and reenter the country.  In contrast, applying §212(c) uniformly might lead all aliens to "try to evade immigration officials for as long as possible," because they could in any event "seek [discretionary] relief if caught."  Id., at 52.
     In the end, we think this dispute beside the point, and we do not resolve it.  The BIA may well have legitimate reasons for limiting §212(c)'s scope in deportation cases.  But still, it must do so in some rational way.  If the BIA proposed to narrow the class of deportable aliens eligible to seek §212(c) relief by flipping a coin--heads an alien may apply for relief, tails he may not--we would reverse the policy in an instant.  That is because agency action must be based on non-arbitrary, " 'relevant factors,' " State Farm, 463 U. S., at 43 (quoting Bowman Transp., 419 U. S., at 285), which here means that the BIA's approach must be tied, even if loosely, to the purposes of the immigration laws or the appropriate operation of the immigration system.  A method for disfavoring deportable aliens that bears no relation to these matters--that neither focuses on nor relates to an alien's fitness to remain in the country--is arbitrary and capricious.  And that is true regardless whether the BIA might have acted to limit the class of deportable aliens eligible for §212(c) relief on other, more rational bases.
     The problem with the comparable-grounds policy is that it does not impose such a reasonable limitation.  Rather than considering factors that might be thought germane to the deportation decision, that policy hinges §212(c) eligibility on an irrelevant comparison between statutory provisions.  Recall that the BIA asks whether the set of offenses in a particular deportation ground lines up with the set in an exclusion ground.  But so what if it does?  Does an alien charged with a particular deportation ground become more worthy of relief because that ground happens to match up with another?  Or less worthy of relief because the ground does not?  The comparison in no way changes the alien's prior offense or his other attributes and circumstances.  So it is difficult to see why that comparison should matter.  Each of these statutory grounds contains a slew of offenses.  Whether each contains the same slew has nothing to do with whether a deportable alien whose prior conviction falls within both grounds merits the ability to seek a waiver.9
     This case well illustrates the point.  In commencing Judulang's deportation proceeding, the Government charged him with an "aggravated felony" involving a "crime of violence" based on his prior manslaughter conviction.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 11a-12a. That made him ineligible for §212(c) relief because the "crime of violence" deportation ground does not sufficiently overlap with the most similar exclusion ground, for "crime[s] involving moral turpitude."  The problem, according to the BIA, is that the "crime of violence" ground includes a few offenses--simple assault, minor burglary, and unauthorized use of a vehicle--that the "moral turpitude" ground does not.  See Brieva-Perez, 23 I. & N. Dec., at 772-773; Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29, 40-41.  But this statutory difference in no way relates to Judulang--or to most other aliens charged with committing a "crime of violence."  Perhaps aliens like Judulang should be eligible for §212(c) relief, or perhaps they should not.  But that determination is not sensibly made by establishing that simple assaults and minor burglaries fall outside a ground for exclusion.  That fact is as extraneous to the merits of the case as a coin flip would be.  It makes Judulang no less deserving of the opportunity to seek discretionary relief--just as its converse (the inclusion of simple assaults and burglaries in the "moral turpitude" exclusion ground) would make him no more so.
     Or consider a different headscratching oddity of the comparable-grounds approach--that it may deny §212(c) eligibility to aliens whose deportation ground fits entirely inside an exclusion ground.  The BIA's Blake decision, noted earlier, provides an example.  See supra, at 6-7.  The deportation ground charged was "aggravated felony" involving "sexual abuse of a minor"; the closest exclusion ground was, once again, a "crime [of] moral turpitude."  23 I. & N. Dec., at 727.  Here, the BIA's problem was not that the deportation ground covered too many offenses; all or virtually all the crimes within that ground also are crimes of moral turpitude.  Rather, the BIA objected that the deportation ground covered too few crimes--or put oppositely, that "the moral turpitude ground of exclusion addresses a . . . much broader category of offenses."  Id., at 728.  But providing relief in exclusion cases to a broad class of aliens hardly justifies denying relief in deportation cases to a subset of that group.10  (The better argument would surely be the reverse--that giving relief in the one context supports doing so in the other.)  Again, we do not say today that the BIA must give all deportable aliens meeting §212(c)'s requirements the chance to apply for a waiver.  See supra, at 11-12.  The point is instead that the BIA cannot make that opportunity turn on the meaningless matching of statutory grounds.
     And underneath this layer of arbitrariness lies yet another, because the outcome of the Board's comparable-grounds analysis itself may rest on the happenstance of an immigration official's charging decision.  This problem arises because an alien's prior conviction may fall within a number of deportation grounds, only one of which corresponds to an exclusion ground.  Consider, for example, an alien who entered the country in 1984 and committed voluntary manslaughter in 1988.  That person could be charged (as Judulang was) with an "aggravated felony" involving a "crime of violence," see 8 U. S. C. §§1101(a)(43)(F), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii).  If so, the alien could not seek a waiver because of the absence of a comparable exclusion ground.  But the alien also could be charged with "a crime involving moral turpitude committed within five years . . . after the date of admission," see §1227(a)(2)(A)(i)(I).  And if that were the deportation charge, the alien could apply for relief, because the ground corresponds to the "moral turpitude" ground used in exclusion cases.  See In re Salmon, 16 I. & N. Dec. 734 (1978).  So everything hangs on the charge.  And the Government has provided no reason to think that immigration officials must adhere to any set scheme in deciding what charges to bring, or that those officials are exercising their charging discretion with §212(c) in mind.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 34-36.  So at base everything hangs on the fortuity of an individual official's decision.  An alien appearing before one official may suffer deportation; an identically situated alien appearing before another may gain the right to stay in this country.
     In a foundational deportation case, this Court recognized the high stakes for an alien who has long resided in this country, and reversed an agency decision that would "make his right to remain here dependent on circumstances so fortuitous and capricious."  Delgadillo v. Carmichael, 332 U. S. 388, 391 (1947).  We think the policy before us similarly flawed.  The comparable-grounds approach does not rest on any factors relevant to whether an alien (or any group of aliens) should be deported.  It instead distinguishes among aliens--decides who should be eligible for discretionary relief and who should not--solely by comparing the metes and bounds of diverse statutory categories into which an alien falls.  The resulting Venn diagrams have no connection to the goals of the deportation process or the rational operation of the immigration laws.  Judge Learned Hand wrote in another early immigration case that deportation decisions cannot be made a "sport of chance."  See Di Pasquale v. Karnuth, 158 F. 2d 878, 879 (CA2 1947) (quoted in Rosenberg v. Fleuti, 374 U. S. 449, 455 (1963)).  That is what the comparable-grounds rule brings about, and that is what the APA's "arbitrary and capricious" standard is designed to thwart.
B
     The Government makes three arguments in defense of the comparable-grounds rule--the first based on statutory text, the next on history, the last on cost.  We find none of them persuasive.
1
     The Government initially contends that the comparable-grounds approach is more faithful to "the statute's language," Brief for Respondent 21--or otherwise said, that "lifting that limit 'would take immigration practice even further from the statutory text,' " id., at 22 (quoting Matter of Hernandez-Casillas, 20 I. & N. Dec. 262, 287 (1990)).  In the Government's view, §212(c) is "phrased in terms of waiving statutorily specified grounds of exclusion"; that phrasing, says the Government, counsels a comparative analysis of grounds when applying §212(c) in the deportation context.  Brief for Respondent 21; see Tr. of Oral Arg. 34 ("[T]he reason [the comparable-grounds approach] makes sense is because the statute only provides for relief from grounds of . . . exclusion").
     The first difficulty with this argument is that it is based on an inaccurate description of the statute.  Section 212(c) instructs that certain resident aliens "may be admitted in the discretion of the Attorney General" notwithstanding any of "the provisions of subsection (a) . . . (other than paragraphs (3) and (9)(C))."  8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.).  Subsection (a) contains the full list of exclusion grounds; paragraphs (3) and (9)(C) (which deal with national security and international child abduction) are two among these.  What §212(c) actually says, then, is that the Attorney General may admit any excludable alien, except if the alien is charged with two specified grounds.  And that means that once the Attorney General determines that the alien is not being excluded for those two reasons, the ground of exclusion no longer matters.  At that point, the alien is eligible for relief, and the thing the Attorney General waives is not a particular exclusion ground, but the simple denial of entry.  So the premise of the Government's argument is wrong.  And if the premise, so too the conclusion--that is, because §212(c)'s text is not "phrased in terms of waiving statutorily specified grounds of exclusion," Brief for Respondent 21, it cannot counsel a search for corresponding grounds of deportation.
     More fundamentally, the comparable-grounds approach would not follow from §212(c) even were the Government right about the section's phrasing.  That is because §212(c) simply has nothing to do with deportation: The provision was not meant to interact with the statutory grounds for deportation, any more than those grounds were designed to interact with the provision.  Rather, §212(c) refers solely to exclusion decisions; its extension to deportation cases arose from the agency's extra-textual view that some similar relief should be available in that context to avoid unreasonable distinctions.  Cf., e.g., Matter of L-, 1 I. & N. Dec., at 5; see also supra, at 3-4.11  Accordingly, the text of §212(c), whether or not phrased in terms of "waiving grounds of exclusion," cannot support the BIA's use of the comparable-grounds rule--or, for that matter, any other method for extending discretionary relief to deportation cases.  We well understand the difficulties of operating in such a text-free zone; indeed, we appreciate the Government's yearning for a textual anchor.  But §212(c), no matter how many times read or parsed, does not provide one.
2
     In disputing Judulang's contentions, the Government also emphasizes the comparable-grounds rule's vintage.  See Brief for Respondent 22-23, 30-43.  As an initial matter, we think this a slender reed to support a significant government policy.  Arbitrary agency action becomes no less so by simple dint of repetition.  (To use a prior analogy, flipping coins to determine §212(c) eligibility would remain as arbitrary on the thousandth try as on the first.)  And longstanding capriciousness receives no special exemption from the APA.  In any event, we cannot detect the consistency that the BIA claims has marked its approach to this issue.  To the contrary, the BIA has repeatedly vacillated in its method for applying §212(c) to deportable aliens.
     Prior to 1984, the BIA endorsed a variety of approaches.  In Matter of T-, 5 I. & N. Dec. 389, 390 (1953), for example, the BIA held that an alien was not eligible for §212(c) relief because her "ground of deportation" did not appear in the exclusion statute.  That decision anticipated the comparable-grounds approach that the BIA today uses.  But in Tanori, the BIA pronounced that a deportable alien could apply for a waiver because "the same facts"--in that case, a marijuana conviction--would have allowed him to seek §212(c) relief in an exclusion proceeding.  15 I. & N. Dec., at 568.  That approach is more nearly similar to the one Judulang urges here.  And then, in Matter of Granados, 16 I. & N. Dec. 726, 728 (1979), the BIA tried to have it both ways:  It denied §212(c) eligibility both because the deportation ground charged did not correspond to, and because the alien's prior conviction did not fall within, a waivable ground of exclusion.  In short, the BIA's cases were all over the map.
     The Government insists that the BIA imposed order in Matter of Wadud, 19 I. & N. Dec. 182, 185-186 (1984), when it held that a deportable alien could not seek §212(c) relief unless the deportation ground charged had an "analogous ground of inadmissibility."  See Brief for Respondent 40-41.  But the BIA's settlement, if any, was fleeting.  Just seven years later, the BIA adopted a new policy entirely, extending §212(c) eligibility to "aliens deportable under any ground of deportability except those where there is a comparable ground of exclusion which has been specifically excepted from section 212(c)."  Hernandez-Casillas, 20 I. & N. Dec., at 266.  That new rule turned the comparable-grounds approach inside-out, allowing aliens to seek §212(c) relief in deportation cases except when the ground charged corresponded to an exclusion ground that could not be waived.  To be sure, the Attorney General (on referral of the case from the BIA), disavowed this position in favor of the more standard version of the comparable-grounds rule.  Id., at 287.  But even while doing so, the Attorney General stated that "an alien subject to deportation must have the same opportunity to seek discretionary relief as an alien . . . subject to exclusion."  Ibid.  That assertion is exactly the one Judulang makes in this case; it is consonant not with the comparable-grounds rule the BIA here defends, but instead with an inquiry into whether an alien's prior conviction falls within an exclusion ground.
     Given these mixed signals, it is perhaps not surprising that the BIA continued to alternate between approaches in the years that followed.  Immediately after the Attorney General's opinion in Hernandez-Casillas, the BIA endorsed the comparable-grounds approach on several occasions.  See Meza, 20 I. & N. Dec., at 259; Matter of Montenegro, 20 I. & N. Dec. 603, 604-605 (1992); Matter of Gabryelsky, 20 I. & N. Dec. 750, 753-754 (1993); In re Esposito, 21 I. & N. Dec. 1, 6-7 (1995); In re Jimenez-Santillano, 21 I. & N. Dec. 567, 571-572 (1996).  But just a few years later, the BIA issued a series of unpublished opinions that asked only whether a deportable alien's prior conviction fell within an exclusion ground.  See, e.g., In re Manzueta, No. A93 022 672, 2003 WL 23269892 (Dec. 1, 2003).  Not until the BIA's decisions in Blake and Brieva-Perez did the pendulum stop swinging.  That history hardly supports the Government's view of a consistent agency practice.12
3
     The Government finally argues that the comparable-grounds rule saves time and money.  The Government claims that comparing deportation grounds to exclusion grounds can be accomplished in just a few "precedential decision[s]," which then can govern broad swaths of cases.  See Brief for Respondent 46.  By contrast, the Government argues, Judulang's approach would force it to determine whether each and every crime of conviction falls within an exclusion ground.  Further, the Government contends that Judulang's approach would grant eligibility to a greater number of deportable aliens, which in turn would force the Government to make additional individualized assessments of whether to actually grant relief.  Id., at 47.
     Once again, the Government's rationale comes up short.  Cost is an important factor for agencies to consider in many contexts.  But cheapness alone cannot save an arbitrary agency policy.  (If it could, flipping coins would be a valid way to determine an alien's eligibility for a waiver.)  And in any event, we suspect the Government exaggerates the cost savings associated with the comparable-grounds rule.  Judulang's proposed approach asks immigration officials only to do what they have done for years in exclusion cases; that means, for one thing, that officials can make use of substantial existing precedent governing whether a crime falls within a ground of exclusion.  And Judulang's proposal may not be the only alternative to the comparable-grounds rule.  See supra, at 11-12.  In rejecting that rule, we do not preclude the BIA from trying to devise another, equally economical policy respecting eligibility for §212(c) relief, so long as it comports with everything held in both this decision and St. Cyr.
III
     We must reverse an agency policy when we cannot discern a reason for it.  That is the trouble in this case.  The BIA's comparable-grounds rule is unmoored from the purposes and concerns of the immigration laws.  It allows an irrelevant comparison between statutory provisions to govern a matter of the utmost importance--whether lawful resident aliens with longstanding ties to this country may stay here.  And contrary to the Government's protestations, it is not supported by text or practice or cost considerations.  The BIA's approach therefore cannot pass muster under ordinary principles of administrative law.
     The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is hereby reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

FOOTNOTES
Footnote 1 The relevant part of §212(c), in the version of the exclusion statute all parties use, read as follows:
"Aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence who temporarily proceeded abroad voluntarily and not under an order of deportation, and who are returning to a lawful unrelinquished domicile of seven consecutive years, may be admitted in the discretion of the Attorney General without regard to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section (other than paragraphs (3) and (9)(C))."  8 U. S. C. §1182(c) (1994 ed.).
The parenthetical clause of this section prevented the Attorney General from waiving exclusion for aliens who posed a threat to national security, §1182(a)(3), and aliens who engaged in international child abduction, §1182(a)(9)(C).
Footnote 2 Firearms offenses are the most significant crimes falling outside the statutory grounds for exclusion.  See Matter of Hernandez-Casillas, 20 I. & N. Dec. 262, 282, n. 4 (1990).
Footnote 3 Blake and Brieva-Perez clarified a 2004 regulation issued by the BIA stating that an alien is ineligible for §212(c) relief when deportable "on a ground which does not have a statutory counterpart in section 212."  8 CFR §1212.3(f)(5) (2010).
Footnote 4 Careful readers may note that the example involving controlled substances offered in the last paragraph also involves an exclusion ground that sweeps more broadly than the deportation ground charged.  The deportation ground requires "trafficking" in a controlled substance, whereas the exclusion ground includes all possession offenses as well.  The BIA nonetheless held in Meza that the degree of overlap between the two grounds was sufficient to make the alien eligible for §212(c) relief.  That holding reveals the broad discretion that the BIA currently exercises in deciding when two statutory grounds are comparable enough.
Footnote 5 DHS also charged two other grounds for deportation, but the BIA did not rule on those grounds and they are not before us.
Footnote 6 Compare Blake v. Carbone, 489 F. 3d 88, 103 (CA2 2007) (rejecting the BIA's approach and holding instead that "[i]f the offense that renders [an alien] deportable would render a similarly situated [alien] excludable, the deportable [alien] is eligible for a waiver of deportation"), with Koussan v. Holder, 556 F. 3d 403, 412-414 (CA6 2009) (upholding the comparable-grounds policy); Caroleo v. Gonzales, 476 F. 3d 158, 162-163, 168 (CA3 2007) (same); Kim v. Gonzales, 468 F. 3d 58, 62-63 (CA1 2006) (same).
Footnote 7 The Government urges us instead to analyze this case under the second step of the test we announced in Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984), to govern judicial review of an agency's statutory interpretations.  See Brief for Respondent 19.  Were we to do so, our analysis would be the same, because under Chevron step two, we ask whether an agency interpretation is " 'arbitrary or capricious in substance.' "  Mayo Foundation for Medical Ed. and Research v. United States, 562 U. S. ___ , ___ (2011) (slip op., at 7) (quoting Household Credit Services, Inc. v. Pfennig, 541 U. S. 232, 242 (2004)).  But we think the more apt analytic framework in this case is standard "arbitrary [or] capricious" review under the APA.  The BIA's comparable-grounds policy, as articulated in In re Blake, 23 I. & N. Dec. 722 (2005) and In re Brieva-Perez, 23 I. & N. Dec. 766 (2005), is not an interpretation of any statutory language--nor could it be, given that §212(c) does not mention deportation cases, see infra, at 16-17, and n. 11.
Footnote 8 Judulang also argues that the BIA is making an impermissible distinction between two groups of deportable aliens--those who have recently left and returned to the country and those who have not.  According to Judulang, the BIA is treating the former as if they were seeking admission, while applying the "comparable grounds" approach only to the latter.  See Reply Brief for Petitioner 16-18.  That is the kind of distinction the Second Circuit held in Francis v. INS, 532 F. 2d 268 (1976), violated equal protection.  See supra, at 3-4.  But the Government contends that it is drawing no such line--that it is applying the comparable-grounds policy to all deportable aliens.  Brief for Respondent 29.  We think the available evidence tends to support the Government's representation.  See In re Meza-Castillo, No. A091 366 529, 2009 WL 455596 (BIA, Feb. 9, 2009) (applying comparable-grounds analysis to a deportable alien who had left and returned to the country); In re Valenzuela-Morales, No. A40 443 512, 2008 WL 2079382 (BIA, Apr. 23, 2008) (same).  But in light of our holding that the comparable-grounds approach is arbitrary and capricious, we need not resolve this dispute about the BIA's practice.
Footnote 9 The case would be different if Congress had intended for §212(c) relief to depend on the interaction of exclusion grounds and deportation grounds.  But the Government has presented us with no evidence to this effect, nor have we found any.  See Blake, 489 F. 3d, at 102 (Congress never contemplated, in drafting the immigration laws, "that its grounds of deportation would have any connection with the grounds of exclusion" in the application of §212(c)); see also infra, at 16-17.
Footnote 10 Perhaps that is why the BIA declined to apply similar reasoning in Meza--a case also involving an exclusion ground that sweeps more broadly than a deportation ground (although not to the same extent as in Blake).  See supra, at 6.
Footnote 11 Congress amended §212(c), just five months before repealing it, to include a first-time reference to deportation cases.  That amendment prohibited the Attorney General from granting discretionary relief to aliens deportable on several specified grounds.  See Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, 110 Stat. 1277 (effective Apr. 24, 1996).  The change does not affect our analysis, nor does the Government argue it should.  As the Government notes, the amendment "did not speak to the viability of the Board's" comparable-grounds rule, but instead made categorically ineligible for §212(c) relief "those deportable by reason of certain crimes."  Brief for Respondent 20.  Presumably, Congress thought those crimes particularly incompatible with an alien's continued residence in this country.  
Footnote 12 Because we find the BIA's prior practice so unsettled, we likewise reject Judulang's argument that Blake and Brieva-Perez were impermissibly retroactive.  To succeed on that theory, Judulang would have to show, at a minimum, that in entering his guilty plea, he had reasonably relied on a legal rule from which Blake and Brieva-Perez departed.  See Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 270 (1994) (stating that retroactivity analysis focuses on "considerations of fair notice, reasonable reliance, and settled expectations").  The instability of the BIA's prior practice prevents Judulang from making this showing: The BIA sometimes recognized aliens in Judulang's position as eligible for §212(c) relief, but sometimes did not.  





United States Supreme Court
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ET AL. v. WHITING ET AL., (2011)
No. 09-115
Argued: December 8, 2010    Decided: May 26, 2011


The Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) makes it "unlawful for a person or other entity ... to hire, or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment in the United States an alien knowing the alien is an unauthorized alien."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(1)(A).  Employers that violate that prohibition may be subjected to federal civil and criminal sanctions.  IRCA also restricts the ability of States to combat employment of unauthorized workers; the Act expressly preempts "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."  §1324a(h)(2).


          IRCA also requires employers to take steps to verify an employee's eligibility for employment.  In an attempt to improve that verification process in the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), Congress created E-Verify--an internet-based system employers can use to check the work authorization status of employees.


          Against this statutory background, several States have recently enacted laws attempting to impose sanctions for the employment of unauthorized aliens through, among other things, "licensing and similar laws."  Arizona is one of them.  The Legal Arizona Workers Act provides that the licenses of state employers that knowingly or intentionally employ unauthorized aliens may be, and in certain circumstances must be, suspended or revoked.  That law also requires that all Arizona employers use E-Verify.


          The Chamber of Commerce of the United States and various business and civil rights organizations (collectively Chamber) filed this federal preenforcement suit against those charged with administering the Arizona law, arguing that the state law's license suspension and revocation provisions were both expressly and impliedly preempted by federal immigration law, and that the mandatory use of E-Verify was impliedly preempted.  The District Court found that the plain language of IRCA's preemption clause did not invalidate the Arizona law because the law did no more than impose licensing conditions on businesses operating within the State.  Nor was the state law preempted with respect to E-Verify, the court concluded, because although Congress had made the program voluntary at the national level, it had expressed no intent to prevent States from mandating participation.  The Ninth Circuit affirmed.
Held: The judgment is affirmed.
558 F. 3d 856, affirmed.
     The Chief Justice delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I and II-A, concluding that Arizona's licensing law is not expressly preempted.


     Arizona's licensing law falls well within the confines of the authority Congress chose to leave to the States and therefore is not expressly preempted.  While IRCA prohibits States from imposing "civil or criminal sanctions" on those who employ unauthorized aliens, it preserves state authority to impose sanctions "through licensing and similar laws."  §1324a(h)(2).  That is what the Arizona law does--it instructs courts to suspend or revoke the business licenses of in-state employers that employ unauthorized aliens.  The definition of "license" contained in the Arizona statute largely parrots the definition of "license" that Congress codified in the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).


     The state statute also includes within its definition of "license" documents such as articles of incorporation, certificates of partnership, and grants of authority to foreign companies to transact business in the State, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(9), each of which has clear counterparts in APA and dictionary definitions of the word "license."  And even if a law regulating articles of incorporation and the like is not itself a "licensing law," it is at the very least "similar" to one, and therefore comfortably within the savings clause.  The Chamber's argument that the Arizona law is not a "licensing" law because it operates only to suspend and revoke licenses rather than to grant them is without basis in law, fact, or logic.


     The Chamber contends that the savings clause should apply only to certain types of licenses or only to license revocation following an IRCA adjudication because Congress, when enacting IRCA, eliminated unauthorized worker prohibitions and associated adjudication procedures in another federal statute.  But no such limits are even remotely discernible in the statutory text.


     The Chamber's reliance on IRCA's legislative history to bolster its textual and structural arguments is unavailing given the Court's conclusion that Arizona's law falls within the plain text of the savings clause.  Pp. 9-15.

     The Chief Justice, joined by Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy, and Justice Alito, concluded in Part II-B:


     The Arizona licensing law is not impliedly preempted by federal law.  At its broadest, the Chamber's argument is that Congress intended the federal system to be exclusive.  But Arizona's procedures simply implement the sanctions that Congress expressly allowed the States to pursue through licensing laws.  Given that Congress specifically preserved such authority for the States, it stands to reason that Congress did not intend to prevent the States from using appropriate tools to exercise that authority.


     And here Arizona's law closely tracks IRCA's provisions in all material respects.  For example, it adopts the federal definition of who qualifies as an "unauthorized alien," compare 8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(3) with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(11); provides that state investigators must verify the work authorization of an allegedly unauthorized alien with the Federal Government, making no independent determination of the matter, §23-212(B); and requires a state court to "consider only the federal government's determination," §23-212(H).


     The Chamber's more general contention that the Arizona law is preempted because it upsets the balance that Congress sought to strike in IRCA also fails.  The cases on which the Chamber relies in making this argument all involve uniquely federal areas of interest, see, e.g., Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341.  Regulating in-state businesses through licensing laws is not such an area.  And those cases all concern state actions that directly interfered with the operation of a federal program, see, e.g., id., at 351.  There is no similar interference here.


     The Chamber asserts that employers will err on the side of discrimination rather than risk the " 'business death penalty' " by "hiring unauthorized workers."  That is not the choice.  License termination is not an available sanction for merely hiring unauthorized workers, but is triggered only by far more egregious violations.  And because the Arizona law covers only knowing or intentional violations, an employer acting in good faith need not fear the law's sanctions.  Moreover, federal and state antidiscrimination laws protect against employment discrimination and provide employers with a strong incentive not to discriminate.  Employers also enjoy safe harbors from liability when using E-Verify as required by the Arizona law.  The most rational path for employers is to obey both the law barring the employment of unauthorized aliens and the law prohibiting discrimination.  There is no reason to suppose that Arizona employers will choose not to do so.  Pp. 15-22.


     The Chief Justice delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Part III-A, concluding that Arizona's E-Verify mandate is not impliedly preempted.


     Arizona's requirement that employers use E-Verify is not impliedly preempted.  The IIRIRA provision setting up E-Verify contains no language circumscribing state action.  It does, however, constrain federal action: absent a prior violation of federal law, "the Secretary of Homeland Security may not require any person or ...  entity" outside the Federal Government "to participate in" E-Verify.  IIRIRA, §402(a), (e).  The fact that the Federal Government may require the use of E-Verify in only limited circumstances says nothing about what the States may do.  The Government recently argued just that in another case and approvingly referenced Arizona's law as an example of a permissible use of E-Verify when doing so.


     Moreover, Arizona's use of E-Verify does not conflict with the federal scheme.  The state law requires no more than that an employer, after hiring an employee, "verify the employment eligibility of the employee" through E-Verify.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-214(A).  And the consequences of not using E-Verify are the same under the state and federal law--an employer forfeits an otherwise available rebuttable presumption of compliance with the law.  Pp. 23-24.


     The Chief Justice, joined by Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy, and Justice Alito, concluded in Part III-B:


     Arizona's requirement that employers use E-Verify in no way obstructs achieving the aims of the federal program.  In fact, the Government has consistently expanded and encouraged the use of E-Verify, and Congress has directed that E-Verify be made available in all 50 States.  And the Government has expressly rejected the Chamber's claim that the Arizona law, and those like it, will overload the federal system.  Pp. 24-25.
     Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Parts II-B and III-B.  Scalia, Kennedy, and Alito, JJ., joined that opinion in full, and Thomas, J., joined as to Parts I, II-A, and III-A and concurred in the judgment.  Breyer, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, J., joined.  Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion.  Kagan, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.


CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATESOF AMERICA, et al., PETITIONERS v. MICHAEL B. WHITING et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[May 26, 2011]

     Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Parts II-B and III-B.**

     Federal immigration law expressly preempts "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ ... unauthorized aliens."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).  A recently enacted Arizona statute--the Legal Arizona Workers Act--provides that the licenses of state employers that knowingly or intentionally employ unauthorized aliens may be, and in certain circumstances must be, sus-pended or revoked.  The law also requires that all Arizona employers use a federal electronic verification system to confirm that the workers they employ are legally authorized workers.  The question presented is whether federal immigration law preempts those provisions of Arizona law.  Because we conclude that the State's licensing provisions fall squarely within the federal statute's savings clause and that the Arizona regulation does not otherwise conflict with federal law, we hold that the Arizona law is not preempted.
I
A

     In 1952, Congress enacted the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, as amended, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq.  That statute established a "comprehensive federal statutory scheme for regulation of immigration and naturalization" and set "the terms and conditions of admission to the country and the subsequent treatment of aliens lawfully in the country."  De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351, 353, 359 (1976).
     In the years following the enactment of the INA, several States took action to prohibit the employment of indi-viduals living within state borders who were not lawful residents of the United States.  For example, in 1971 Cali-fornia passed a law providing that "[n]o employer shall knowingly employ an alien who is not entitled to lawful residence in the United States if such employment would have an adverse effect on lawful resident workers."  1971 Cal. Stats. ch. 1442, §1(a).  The California law imposed fines ranging from $200 to $500 for each violation of this prohibition.  §1(b).  At least 11 other States enacted provisions during that same time period proscribing the employment of unauthorized aliens.1


     We first addressed the interaction of federal immigration law and state laws dealing with the employment of unauthorized aliens in De Canas, 424 U. S. 351.  In that case, we recognized that the "[p]ower to regulate immi-gration is unquestionably ... a federal power."  Id., at 354.  At the same time, however, we noted that the "States possess broad authority under their police powers to regulate the employment relationship to protect workers within the State," id., at 356, that "prohibit[ing] the knowing employment ... of persons not entitled to lawful residence in the United States, let alone to work here, is certainly within the mainstream of [the State's] police power," ibid., and that the Federal Government had "at best" expressed "a peripheral concern with [the] employment of illegal entrants" at that point in time,  id., at 360.  As a result, we declined to hold that a state law assessing civil fines for the employment of unauthorized aliens was preempted by federal immigration law.


     Ten years after De Canas, Congress enacted the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA), 100 Stat. 3359.  IRCA makes it "unlawful for a person or other entity ... to hire, or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment in the United States an alien knowing the alien is an unauthorized alien."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(1)(A).  IRCA defines an "unauthorized alien" as an alien who is not "lawfully admitted for permanent residence" or not otherwise authorized by the Attorney General to be employed in the United States.  §1324a(h)(3).


     To facilitate compliance with this prohibition, IRCA requires that employers review documents establishing an employee's eligibility for employment.  §1324a(b).  An employer can confirm an employee's authorization to work by reviewing the employee's United States passport, resident alien card, alien registration card, or other document approved by the Attorney General; or by reviewing a combination of other documents such as a driver's license and social security card.  §1324a(b)(1)(B)-(D).  The employer must attest under penalty of perjury on Department of Homeland Security Form I-9 that he "has verified that the individual is not an unauthorized alien" by reviewing these documents.  §1324a(b)(1)(A).  The form I-9 itself "and any information contained in or appended to [it] ... may not be used for purposes other than for enforcement of" IRCA and other specified provisions of federal law.  §1324a(b)(5).


     Employers that violate IRCA's strictures may be subjected to both civil and criminal sanctions.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an entity within the Department of Homeland Security, is authorized to bring charges against a noncompliant employer under §1324a(e).  Depending on the circumstances of the violation, a civil fine ranging from $250 to $16,000 per unauthorized worker may be imposed.  See §1324a(e)(4)(A); 73 Fed. Reg. 10136 (2008).  Employers that engage in a pattern or practice of violating IRCA's requirements can be criminally prosecuted, fined, and imprisoned for up to six months.  §1324a(f)(1).  The Act also imposes fines for engaging in "unfair immigration-related employment practice[s]" such as discriminating on the basis of citizenship or national origin.  §1324b(a)(1); see §1324b(g)(2)(B).  Good-faith com-pliance with IRCA's I-9 document review requirements provides an employer with an affirmative defense if charged with a §1324a violation.  §1324a(a)(3).


     IRCA also restricts the ability of States to combat employment of unauthorized workers.  The Act expressly preempts "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."  §1324a(h)(2).  Under that provision, state laws imposing civil fines for the employment of unauthorized workers like the one we upheld in De Canas are now expressly preempted.


     In 1996, in an attempt to improve IRCA's employment verification system, Congress created three experimental complements to the I-9 process as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), 110 Stat. 3009-655, note following 8 U. S. C. §1324a.  Arizona Contractors Assn., Inc. v. Candelaria, 534 F. Supp. 2d 1036, 1042 (Ariz. 2008); see 8 U. S. C. §1324a(d).  Only one of those programs--E-Verify--remains in operation today.  Originally known as the "Basic Pilot Program," E-Verify "is an internet-based system that allows an employer to verify an employee's work-authorization status."  Chicanos Por La Causa, Inc. v. Napolitano, 558 F. 3d 856, 862 (CA9 2009).  An employer submits a request to the E-Verify system based on information that the employee provides similar to that used in the I-9 process.  In response to that request, the employer receives either a confirmation or a tentative nonconfirmation of the employee's authorization to work.  An employee may challenge a nonconfirmation report.  If the employee does not do so, or if his challenge is unsuccessful, his employment must be terminated or the Federal Government must be informed.  See ibid.


     In the absence of a prior violation of certain federal laws, IIRIRA prohibits the Secretary of Homeland Security from "requir[ing] any person or ... entity" outside the Federal Government "to participate in" the E-Verify program, §402(a), (e), 110 Stat. 3009-656 to 3009-658.  To promote use of the program, however, the statute provides that any employer that utilizes E-Verify "and obtains confirmation of identity and employment eligibility in compliance with the terms and conditions of the program ... has established a rebuttable presumption" that it has not violated IRCA's unauthorized alien employment prohibition, §402(b)(1), id., at 3009-656 to 3009-657.
B

     Acting against this statutory and historical background, several States have recently enacted laws attempting to impose sanctions for the employment of unauthorized aliens through, among other things, "licensing and similar laws," 8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).2  Arizona is one of them.  The Legal Arizona Workers Act of 2007 allows Arizona courts to suspend or revoke the licenses necessary to do business in the State if an employer knowingly or intentionally employs an unauthorized alien.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§23-211, 212, 212.01 (West Supp. 2010) (citing 8 U. S. C. §1324a).
     Under the Arizona law, if an individual files a complaint alleging that an employer has hired an unauthorized alien, the attorney general or the county attorney first verifies the employee's work authorization with the Federal Government pursuant to 8 U. S. C. §1373(c).  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(B).  Section 1373(c) provides that the Federal Government "shall respond to an inquiry by a" State "seeking to verify or ascertain the citizenship or immigration status of any individual ... by providing the requested verification or status information."  The Arizona law expressly prohibits state, county, or local officials from attempting "to independently make a final determination on whether an alien is authorized to work in the United States."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(B).  If the §1373(c) inquiry reveals that a worker is an unauthorized alien, the attorney general or the county attorney must notify United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement offi-cials, notify local law enforcement, and bring an action against the employer.  §23-212(C)(1)-(3), (D).


     When a complaint is brought against an employer un-der Arizona law, "the court shall consider only the federal government's determination pursuant to" 8 U. S. C. §1373(c) in "determining whether an employee is an unauthorized alien."  §23-212(H).  Good-faith compliance with the federal I-9 process provides employers prosecuted by the State with an affirmative defense.  §23-212(J).


     A first instance of "knowingly employ[ing] an unauthorized alien" requires that the court order the employer to terminate the employment of all unauthorized aliens and file quarterly reports on all new hires for a probationary period of three years.  §23-212(A), (F)(1)(a)-(b).  The court may also "order the appropriate agencies to suspend all licenses ... that are held by the employer for [a period] not to exceed ten business days."  §23-212(F)(1)(d).  A second knowing violation requires that the adjudicating court "permanently revoke all licenses that are held by the employer specific to the business location where the unauthorized alien performed work."  §23-212(F)(2).


     For a first intentional violation, the court must order the employer to terminate the employment of all unauthorized aliens and file quarterly reports on all new hires for a probationary period of five years.  §23-212.01(A), (F)(1)(a)-(b).  The court must also suspend all the employer's licenses for a minimum of 10 days.  §23-212.01(F)(1)(c).  A second intentional violation requires the permanent revocation of all business licenses.  §23-212.01(F)(2).


     With respect to both knowing and intentional violations, a violation qualifies as a "second violation" only if it oc-curs at the same business location as the first violation, during the time that the employer is already on probation for a violation at that location.  §23-212(F)(3)(a)-(b); §23-212.01(F)(3)(a)-(b).


     The Arizona law also requires that "every employer, after hiring an employee, shall verify the employment eligibility of the employee" by using E-Verify.  §23-214(A).3  "[P]roof of verifying the employment authorization of an employee through the e-verify program creates a rebuttable presumption that an employer did not knowingly employ an unauthorized alien."  §23-212(I).
C

     The Chamber of Commerce of the United States and various business and civil rights organizations (collec-tively Chamber of Commerce or Chamber) filed a pre-enforcement suit in federal court against those charged with administering the Arizona law: more than a dozen Arizona county attorneys, the Governor of Arizona, the Arizona attorney general, the Arizona registrar of contractors, and the director of the Arizona Department of Revenue (collectively Arizona).4  The Chamber argued that the Arizona law's provisions allowing the suspension and revocation of business licenses for employing unauthorized aliens were both expressly and impliedly preempted by federal immigration law, and that the mandatory use of E-Verify was impliedly preempted.
     The District Court held that Arizona's law was not pre-empted.  534 F. Supp. 2d 1036.  It found that the plain language of IRCA's preemption clause did not preempt the Arizona law because the state law does no more than impose licensing conditions on businesses operating within the State.  Id., at 1045-1046.  With respect to E-Verify, the court concluded that although Congress had made the program voluntary at the national level, it had expressed no intent to prevent States from mandating participation.  Id., at 1055-1057.  The Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court in all respects, holding that Arizona's law was a " 'licensing and similar law[]' " falling within IRCA's savings clause and that none of the state law's challenged provisions was "expressly or impliedly preempted by federal policy."  558 F. 3d, at 860, 861, 866.


     We granted certiorari.  561 U. S. ___ (2010).
II

     The Chamber of Commerce argues that Arizona's law is expressly preempted by IRCA's text and impliedly pre-empted because it conflicts with federal law.  We address each of the Chamber's arguments in turn.
A

     When a federal law contains an express preemption clause, we "focus on the plain wording of the clause, which necessarily contains the best evidence of Congress' pre-emptive intent."  CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664 (1993).
     IRCA expressly preempts States from imposing "civil or criminal sanctions" on those who employ unauthorized aliens, "other than through licensing and similar laws."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).  The Arizona law, on its face, purports to impose sanctions through licensing laws.  The state law authorizes state courts to suspend or revoke an employer's business licenses if that employer knowingly or intentionally employs an unauthorized alien.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(A) and (F); §23-212.01(A) and (F).  The Arizona law defines "license" as "any agency permit, certificate, approval, registration, charter or similar form of authorization that is required by law and that is issued by any agency for the purposes of operating a business in" the State.  §23-211(9)(a).  That definition largely parrots the definition of "license" that Congress codified in the Administrative Procedure Act.  See 5 U. S. C. §551(8) (" 'license' includes the whole or a part of an agency permit, certificate, approval, registration, charter, membership, statutory exemption or other form of permission").


     Apart from that general definition, the Arizona law specifically includes within its definition of "license" docu-ments such as articles of incorporation, certificates of partnership, and grants of authority to foreign companies to transact business in the State.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(9).  These examples have clear counterparts in the APA definition just quoted.  See 5 U. S. C. §551(8) (defining "license" as including a "registration" or "charter").


     A license is "a right or permission granted in accordance with law ... to engage in some business or occupation, to do some act, or to engage in some transaction which but for such license would be unlawful."  Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1304 (2002).  Articles of incorporation and certificates of partnership allow the formation of legal entities and permit them as such to engage in business and transactions "which but for such" authorization "would be unlawful."  Ibid.; see Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§10-302, 302(11) (West 2004) (articles of incorporation allow a corporation "to carry out its business and affairs" and to "[c]onduct its business"); see also §10-202(A)(3) (West Supp. 2010).  As for state-issued authorizations for foreign businesses to operate within a State, we have re-peatedly referred to those as "licenses."  See, e.g., Heli-copteros Nacionales de Colombia, S. A. v. Hall, 466 U. S. 408, 417 (1984); G. D. Searle & Co. v. Cohn, 455 U. S. 404, 413, n. 8 (1982); Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516, 518 (1923).  Moreover, even if a law regulating articles of incorporation, partnership certificates, and the like is not itself a "licensing law," it is at the very least "similar" to a licensing law, and therefore comfortably within the savings clause.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).5


     The Chamber and the United States as amicus argue that the Arizona law is not a "licensing" law because it operates only to suspend and revoke licenses rather than to grant them.  Again, this construction of the term runs contrary to the definition that Congress itself has codified.  See 5 U. S. C. §551(9) (" 'licensing' includes agency process respecting the grant, renewal, denial, revocation, sus-pension, annulment, withdrawal, limitation, amendment, modification, or conditioning of a license" (emphasis added)).  It is also contrary to common sense.  There is no basis in law, fact, or logic for deeming a law that grants licenses a licensing law, but a law that suspends or revokes those very licenses something else altogether.


     The Chamber also submits that the manner in which Congress amended a related statute when enacting IRCA supports a narrow interpretation of the savings clause.  The Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (AWPA), 29 U. S. C. §1801 et seq., requires employers to secure a registration certificate from the Department of Labor before engaging in any "farm labor contracting activity."  §1811(a).  Prior to IRCA, AWPA had contained its own prohibition on hiring unauthorized workers, with accompanying adjudication procedures.  See §1813(a); §1816(a) (1982 ed.) (repealed by IRCA, 100 Stat. 3372); §1851(a)-(b) (1982 ed.) (amended by IRCA, 100 Stat. 3372).  When Congress enacted IRCA, it repealed AWPA's separate unauthorized worker prohibition and eliminated the associated adjudication process.  Under the current state of the law, an AWPA certification may be denied based on a prior IRCA violation.  §1813(a)(6) (2006 ed.).  And once obtained, that certification can be revoked because of the employment of an unauthorized alien only following a finding of an IRCA violation.  Ibid.


     The Chamber asserts that IRCA's amendment of AWPA shows that Congress meant to allow state licensing sanctions only after a federal IRCA adjudication, just as adverse action under AWPA can now be taken only through IRCA's procedures.  But the text of IRCA's savings clause says nothing about state licensing sanctions being contingent on prior federal adjudication, or indeed about state licensing processes at all.  The simple fact that federal law creates procedures for federal investigations and adjudications culminating in federal civil or criminal sanctions does not indicate that Congress intended to prevent States from establishing their own procedures for imposing their own sanctions through licensing.  Were AWPA not amended to conform with IRCA, two different federal agencies would be responsible for administering two different unauthorized alien employment laws.  The conforming amendments eliminated that potential redundancy and centralized federal adjudicatory authority.  That hardly supports a conclusion that any state licensing programs must also be contingent on the central federal system.


     In much the same vein, the Chamber argues that Congress's repeal of "AWPA's separate prohibition concerning unauthorized workers belies any suggestion that IRCA meant to authorize each of the 50 States ... to impose its own separate prohibition," and that Congress instead wanted uniformity in immigration law enforcement.  Brief for Petitioners 36.  Justice Breyer also objects to the departure from "one centralized enforcement scheme" under federal law.  Post, at 7 (dissenting opinion). But Congress expressly preserved the ability of the States to impose their own sanctions through licensing; that--like our federal system in general--necessarily entails the prospect of some departure from homogeneity.  And as for "separate prohibition[s]," it is worth recalling that the Arizona licensing law is based exclusively on the federal prohibition--a court reviewing a complaint under the Arizona law may "consider only the federal government's determination" with respect to "whether an employee is an unauthorized alien."  §23-212(H).


     Even more boldly, the Chamber contends that IRCA's savings clause was intended to allow States to impose licensing sanctions solely on AWPA-related farm contracting licensees.  AWPA specifically recognized that federal regulation of farm contracting licensing was only "intended to supplement State law," 29 U. S. C. §1871, and the Chamber argues that the purpose of IRCA's savings clause was limited to preserving existing state farm contractor licensing programs.  But here again no such limit is remotely discernible in the statutory text.  Absent any textual basis, we are not inclined to limit so markedly the otherwise broad phrasing of the savings clause.  See United States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator Co., 287 U. S. 77, 83 (1932) ("extrinsic aids to construction" may be used "to solve, but not to create, an ambiguity" (emphasis and internal quotation marks omitted)).


     The Chamber argues that its textual and structural arguments are bolstered by IRCA's legislative history.  We have already concluded that Arizona's law falls within the plain text of IRCA's savings clause.  And, as we have said before, Congress's "authoritative statement is the statutory text, not the legislative history."  Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U. S. 546, 568 (2005); see also Hoffman Plastic Compounds, Inc. v. NLRB, 535 U. S. 137, 149-150, n. 4 (2002).  Whatever the usefulness of relying on legislative history materials in general, the arguments against doing so are particularly compelling here.  Beyond verbatim recitation of the statutory text, all of the legislative history documents related to IRCA save one fail to discuss the savings clause at all.  The Senate Judiciary Committee Report on the Senate version of the law does not comment on it.  See S. Rep. No. 99-132 (1985).  Only one of the four House Reports on the law touches on the licensing exception, see H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, pt. 1, p. 58 (1986), and we have previously dismissed that very report as "a rather slender reed" from "one House of a politically divided Congress."  Hoffman, supra, at 149-150, n. 4.  And the Conference Committee Report does not discuss the scope of IRCA's preemption provision in any way.  See H. Conf. Rep. No. 99-1000 (1986).6


     IRCA expressly preempts some state powers dealing with the employment of unauthorized aliens and it expressly preserves others.  We hold that Arizona's licensing law falls well within the confines of the authority Congress chose to leave to the States and therefore is not expressly preempted.
B

     As an alternative to its express preemption argument, the Chamber contends that Arizona's law is impliedly preempted because it conflicts with federal law.  At its broadest level, the Chamber's argument is that Congress "intended the federal system to be exclusive," and that any state system therefore necessarily conflicts with federal law.  Brief for Petitioners 39.  But Arizona's procedures simply implement the sanctions that Congress expressly allowed Arizona to pursue through licensing laws.  Given that Congress specifically preserved such authority for the States, it stands to reason that Congress did not intend to prevent the States from using appropriate tools to exercise that authority.
     And here Arizona went the extra mile in ensuring that its law closely tracks IRCA's provisions in all material respects.  The Arizona law begins by adopting the federal definition of who qualifies as an "unauthorized alien."  Compare 8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(3) (an "unauthorized alien" is an alien not "lawfully admitted for permanent residence" or not otherwise authorized by federal law to be employed) with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(11) (adopting the federal definition of "unauthorized alien"); see De Canas, 424 U. S., at 363 (finding no preemption of state law that operates "only with respect to individuals whom the Federal Government has already declared cannot work in this country").


     Not only that, the Arizona law expressly provides that state investigators must verify the work authorization of an allegedly unauthorized alien with the Federal Government, and "shall not attempt to independently make a final determination on whether an alien is authorized to work in the United States."  §23-212(B).  What is more, a state court "shall consider only the federal government's determination" when deciding "whether an employee is an unauthorized alien."  §23-212(H) (emphasis added).  As a result, there can by definition be no conflict between state and federal law as to worker authorization, either at the investigatory or adjudicatory stage.7


     The federal determination on which the State must rely is provided under 8 U. S. C. §1373(c).  See supra, at 6-7.  That provision requires the Federal Government to "verify or ascertain" an individual's "citizenship or immigration status" in response to a state request.  Justice Breyer is concerned that this information "says nothing about work authorization." Post, at 9 (dissenting opinion). Justice Sotomayor shares that concern.  Post, at 10 (dissenting opinion).  But if a §1373(c) inquiry reveals that someone is a United States citizen, that certainly answers the question whether that individual is authorized to work.  The same would be true if the response to a §1373(c) query disclosed that the individual was a lawful permanent resident alien or, on the other hand, had been ordered removed.  In any event, if the information provided under §1373(c) does not confirm that an employee is an unauthorized alien, then the State cannot prove its case.  See Brief for Respondents 50, n. 10 ("if the information from the federal authorities does not establish that a person is an unauthorized alien, it means that the county attorney cannot satisfy his burden of proof in an enforcement action"); Tr. of Oral Arg. 47.


     From this basic starting point, the Arizona law continues to trace the federal law.  Both the state and federal law prohibit "knowingly" employing an unauthorized alien.  Compare 8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(1)(A) with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(A).8  But the state law does not stop there in guarding against any conflict with the federal law.  The Arizona law provides that " '[k]nowingly employ an unauthorized alien' means the actions described in 8 United States Code §1324a," and that the "term shall be interpreted consistently with 8 United States Code §1324a and any applicable federal rules and regulations."  §23-211(8).


     The Arizona law provides employers with the same af-firmative defense for good-faith compliance with the I-9 process as does the federal law.  Compare 8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(3) ("A person or entity that establishes that it has complied in good faith with the [employment verification] requirements of [§1324a(b)] with respect to hiring ... an alien ... has established an affirmative defense that the person or entity has not violated" the law) with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(J) ("an employer that establishes that it has complied in good faith with the requirements of 8 United States Code section 1324a(b) establishes an affirmative defense that the employer did not knowingly employ an unauthorized alien").9  And both the federal and Arizona law accord employers a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the law when they use E-Verify to validate a finding of employment eligibility.  Compare IIRIRA §402(b), 110 Stat. 3009-656 to 3009-657 with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(I).

     Apart from the mechanics of the Arizona law, the Chamber argues more generally that the law is preempted because it upsets the balance that Congress sought to strike when enacting IRCA.  In the Chamber's view, IRCA reflects Congress's careful balancing of several policy considerations--deterring unauthorized alien employment, avoiding burdens on employers, protecting employee privacy, and guarding against employment discrimination.  According to the Chamber, the harshness of Arizona's law " 'exert[s] an extraneous pull on the scheme established by Congress' " that impermissibly upsets that balance.  Brief for Petitioners 45 (quoting Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341, 353 (2001)); see Brief for Petitioners 42-45; Reply Brief for Petitioners 20.     


     As an initial matter, the cases on which the Chamber relies in advancing this argument all involve uniquely federal areas of regulation.  See American Ins. Assn. v. Garamendi, 539 U. S. 396, 401, 405-406 (2003) (presidential conduct of foreign policy); Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 373-374 (2000) (foreign affairs power); Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341, 352 (2001) (fraud on a federal agency); United States v. Locke, 529 U. S. 89, 97, 99  (2000) (regulation of maritime vessels); Bonito Boats, Inc. v. Thunder Craft Boats, Inc., 489 U. S. 141, 143-144 (1989) (patent law).  Regulating in-state businesses through licensing laws has never been considered such an area of dominant federal concern.


     Furthermore, those cases all concern state actions that directly interfered with the operation of the federal program.  In Buckman, for example, the Court determined that allowing a state tort action would cause applicants before a federal agency "to submit a deluge of information that the [agency] neither wants nor needs, resulting in additional burdens on the [agency's] evaluation of an application," and harmful delays in the agency process.  531 U. S., at 351.  In Garamendi, a state law imposing sanctions on insurance companies directly "thwart[ed] the [Federal] Government's policy of repose" for insurance companies that participated in an international program negotiated by the President.  539 U. S., at 425.  Crosby involved a state law imposing sanctions on any entity do-ing business with Burma, a law that left the President with "less to offer and less economic and diplomatic leverage" in exercising his foreign affairs powers.  530 U. S., at 377.  The state law in Bonito Boats extended patent-like protection "for subject matter for which patent protection has been denied or has expired," "thus eroding the general rule of free competition upon which the attractiveness of the federal patent bargain depends."  489 U. S., at 159, 161.  And the portions of Locke on which the Chamber relies involved state efforts "to impose additional unique substantive regulation on the at-sea conduct of vessels"--"an area where the federal interest has been manifest since the beginning of our Republic."  529 U. S., at 106, 99.  There is no similar interference with the federal program in this case; that program operates unimpeded by the state law.


     License suspension and revocation are significant sanctions.  But they are typical attributes of a licensing regime.  Numerous Arizona laws provide for the suspension or revocation of licenses for failing to comply with specified state laws.  See, e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§5-108.05(D), 32-852.01(L), 32-1154(B), 32-1451(M), 41-2186 (West 2002).  Federal law recognizes that the authority to license includes the authority to suspend, revoke, annul, or withdraw a license.  See 5 U. S. C. §551(9).  Indeed, AWPA itself--on which the Chamber so heavily relies--provides that AWPA "certificates of registration" can be suspended or revoked for employing an unauthorized alien.  29 U. S. C. §1813(a)(6).  It makes little sense to preserve state authority to impose sanctions through licensing, but not allow States to revoke licenses when appropriate as one of those sanctions.


     The Chamber and Justice Breyer assert that employers will err on the side of discrimination rather than risk the " 'business death penalty' " by "hiring unauthorized workers."  Post, at 6-7 (dissenting opinion); see Brief for Petitioners 3, 35.  That is not the choice.  License termination is not an available sanction simply for "hiring unauthorized workers."  Only far more egregious violations of the law trigger that consequence.  The Arizona law covers only knowing or intentional violations.  The law's permanent licensing sanctions do not come into play until a second knowing or intentional violation at the same business location, and only if the second violation occurs while the employer is still on probation for the first.  These limits ensure that licensing sanctions are imposed only when an employer's conduct fully justifies them.  An employer acting in good faith need have no fear of the sanctions.


     As the Chamber points out, IRCA has its own anti-discrimination provisions, see 8 U. S. C. §1324b(a)(1), (g)(1)(B) (imposing sanctions for discrimination "against any individual ... with respect to the hiring ... or the discharging of the individual from employment"); Arizona law certainly does nothing to displace those.  Other federal laws, and Arizona anti-discrimination laws, provide further protection against employment discrimination--and strong incentive for employers not to discriminate.  See, e.g., 42 U. S. C. §2000e-2(a) (prohibiting discrimination based on "race, color, religion, sex, or national origin"); Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §41-1463(B)(1) (West Supp. 2010) (prohibiting employment discrimination based on "race, color, religion, sex, age, or national origin").


     All that is required to avoid sanctions under the Legal Arizona Workers Act is to refrain from knowingly or intentionally violating the employment law.  Employers enjoy safe harbors from liability when they use the I-9 system and E-Verify--as Arizona law requires them to do.  The most rational path for employers is to obey the law--both the law barring the employment of unauthorized aliens and the law prohibiting discrimination--and there is no reason to suppose that Arizona employers will choose not to do so.


     As with any piece of legislation, Congress did indeed seek to strike a balance among a variety of interests when it enacted IRCA.  Part of that balance, however, involved allocating authority between the Federal Government and the States.  The principle that Congress adopted in doing so was not that the Federal Government can impose large sanctions, and the States only small ones.  IRCA instead preserved state authority over a particular category of sanctions--those imposed "through licensing and similar laws."


     Of course Arizona hopes that its law will result in more effective enforcement of the prohibition on employing unauthorized aliens.  But in preserving to the States the authority to impose sanctions through licensing laws, Congress did not intend to preserve only those state laws that would have no effect.  The balancing process that culminated in IRCA resulted in a ban on hiring unauthorized aliens, and the state law here simply seeks to enforce that ban.


     Implied preemption analysis does not justify a "freewheeling judicial inquiry into whether a state statute is in tension with federal objectives"; such an endeavor "would undercut the principle that it is Congress rather than the courts that preempts state law."  Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 111 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); see Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 256 (1984).  Our precedents "establish that a high threshold must be met if a state law is to be pre-empted for conflicting with the purposes of a federal Act."  Gade, supra, at 110.  That threshold is not met here.
III

     The Chamber also argues that Arizona's requirement that employers use the federal E-Verify system to determine whether an employee is authorized to work is im-pliedly preempted.  In the Chamber's view, "Congress wanted to develop a reliable and non-burdensome system of work-authorization verification" that could serve as an alternative to the I-9 procedures, and the "mandatory use of E-Verify impedes that purpose."  558 F. 3d, at 866.
A

     We begin again with the relevant text.  The provision of IIRIRA setting up the program that includes E-Verify contains no language circumscribing state action.  It does, however, constrain federal action: absent a prior violation of federal law, "the Secretary of Homeland Security may not require any person or other entity [outside of the Federal Government] to participate in a pilot program" such as E-Verify.  IIRIRA §402(a), 110 Stat. 3009-656.  That provision limits what the Secretary of Homeland Security may do--nothing more.
     The Federal Government recently argued just that, and approvingly referenced Arizona's E-Verify law when doing so.  In 2008, an Executive Order mandated that executive agencies require federal contractors to use E-Verify as a condition of receiving a federal contract.  See Exec. Order No. 13465, 73 Fed. Reg. 33286 (2008).  When that Order and its implementing regulation were challenged, the Government pointed to Arizona's E-Verify mandate as an example of a permissible use of that system:  "[T]he State of Arizona has required all public and private employers in that State to use E-Verify ... .  This is permissible because the State of Arizona is not the Secretary of Homeland Security."  Defendants' Reply Memorandum in Support of Their Motion for Summary Judgment in No. 8:08-cv-03444 (D Md.), p. 7 (emphasis added), appeal dism'd, No. 09-2006 (CA4, Dec. 14, 2009).


     Arizona's use of E-Verify does not conflict with the federal scheme.  The Arizona law requires that "every employer, after hiring an employee, shall verify the employment eligibility of the employee" through E-Verify.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-214(A) (West Supp. 2010).  That requirement is entirely consistent with the federal law.  And the consequences of not using E-Verify under the Arizona law are the same as the consequences of not using the system under federal law.  In both instances, the only result is that the employer forfeits the otherwise available rebuttable presumption that it complied with the law.  Compare IIRIRA §402(b)(1) with Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(I).10
B

     Congress's objective in authorizing the development of E-Verify was to ensure reliability in employment author-ization verification, combat counterfeiting of identity documents, and protect employee privacy.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(d)(2).  Arizona's requirement that employers operating within its borders use E-Verify in no way obstructs achieving those aims.
     In fact, the Federal Government has consistently expanded and encouraged the use of E-Verify.  When E-Verify was created in 1996, it was meant to last just four years and it was made available in only six States.  IIRIRA §401(b) and (c)(1), 110 Stat. 3009-655 to 3009-656.  Congress since has acted to extend the E-Verify program's existence on four separate occasions, the most recent of which ensures the program's vitality through 2012.11  And in 2003 Congress directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to make E-Verify available in all 50 States.  117 Stat. 1944; IIRIRA §401(c)(1), 110 Stat. 3009-656.  The Department of Homeland Security has even used "billboard and radio advertisements ... to encourage greater participation" in the E-Verify program.  534 F. Supp. 2d, at 1056.


     The Chamber contends that "if the 49 other States followed Arizona's lead, the state-mandated drain on federal resources would overwhelm the federal system and render it completely ineffective, thereby defeating Congress's primary objective in establishing E-Verify."  Brief for Petitioners 50-51.  Whatever the legal significance of that argument, the United States does not agree with the factual premise.  According to the Department of Homeland Security, "the E-Verify system can accommodate the increased use that the Arizona statute and existing similar laws would create."  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 34.  And the United States notes that "[t]he government continues to encourage more employers to participate" in E-Verify.  Id., at 31.


     The Chamber has reservations about E-Verify's reliability, see Brief for Petitioners 49, n. 27, but again the United States disagrees.  The Federal Government reports that "E-Verify's successful track record . . . is borne out by findings documenting the system's accuracy and participants' satisfaction."  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 31.  Indeed, according to the Government, the program is "the best means available to determine the employment eligibility of new hires."  U. S. Dept. of Homeland Security, U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, E-Verify User Manual for Employers 4 (Sept. 2010).12
*  *  *

     IRCA expressly reserves to the States the authority to impose sanctions on employers hiring unauthorized workers, through licensing and similar laws.  In exercising that authority, Arizona has taken the route least likely to cause tension with federal law.  It uses the Federal Government's own definition of "unauthorized alien," it relies solely on the Federal Government's own determination of who is an unauthorized alien, and it requires Arizona employers to use the Federal Government's own system for checking employee status.  If even this gives rise to impermissible conflicts with federal law, then there really is no way for the State to implement licensing sanctions, contrary to the express terms of the savings clause.
     Because Arizona's unauthorized alien employment law fits within the confines of IRCA's savings clause and does not conflict with federal immigration law, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.


CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, et al., PETITIONERS v. MICHAEL  B. WHITING et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[May 26, 2011]

     Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.

     The federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (Act or IRCA) pre-empts "any State or local law imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit, or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).  The state law before us, the Legal Arizona Workers Act, imposes civil sanctions upon those who employ unauthorized aliens.  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211 et seq. (West Supp. 2010).  Thus the state law falls within the federal Act's general pre-emption rule and is pre-empted--unless it also falls within that rule's exception for "licensing and similar laws."  Unlike the Court, I do not believe the state law falls within this exception, and I consequently would hold it pre-empted.


     Arizona calls its state statute a "licensing law," and the statute uses the word "licensing."  But the statute strays beyond the bounds of the federal licensing exception, for it defines "license" to include articles of incorporation and partnership certificates, indeed virtually every state-law authorization for any firm, corporation, or partnership to do business in the State.  §23-211(9)(a); cf. §23-211(9)(c) (excepting professional licenses, and water and environmental permits).  Congress did not intend its "licensing" language to create so broad an exemption, for doing so would permit States to eviscerate the federal Act's pre-emption provision, indeed to subvert the Act itself, by undermining Congress' efforts (1) to protect lawful workers from national-origin-based discrimination and (2) to protect lawful employers against erroneous prosecution or punishment.


     Dictionary definitions of the word "licensing" are, as the majority points out, broad enough to include virtually any permission that the State chooses to call a "license."  See ante, at 10 (relying on a dictionary and the federal Administrative Procedure Act).  But neither dictionary definitions nor the use of the word "license" in an unrelated statute can demonstrate what scope Congress intended the word "licensing" to have as it used that word in this federal statute.  Instead, statutory context must ultimately determine the word's coverage.  Context tells a driver that he cannot produce a partnership certificate when a policeman stops the car and asks for a license.  Context tells all of us that "licensing" as used in the Act does not include marriage licenses or the licensing of domestic animals.  And context, which includes statutory purposes, language, and history, tells us that the federal statute's "licensing" language does not embrace Arizona's overly broad definition of that term.  That is to say, ordinary corporate charters, certificates of partnership, and the like do not fall within the scope of the word "licensing" as used in this federal exception.  See Dolan v. Postal Service, 546 U. S. 481, 486 (2006) (statutory interpretation requires courts to "rea[d] the whole statutory text, conside[r] the purpose and context of the statute, and consul[t] any precedents or authorities that inform the analysis"); United States v. Heirs of Boisdoré, 8 How. 113, 122 (1849) (similar).
I

     To understand how the majority's interpretation of the word "licensing" subverts the Act, one must understand the basic purposes of the pre-emption provision and of the Act itself.  Ordinarily, an express pre-emption provision in a federal statute indicates a particular congressional interest in preventing States from enacting laws that might interfere with Congress' statutory objectives.  See International Paper Co. v. Ouellette, 479 U. S. 481, 494 (1987).  The majority's reading of the provision's "licensing" exception, however, does the opposite.  It facilitates the creation of " 'obstacle[s] to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress.' "  Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 373 (2000) (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941)).
A

     Essentially, the federal Act requires employers to verify the work eligibility of their employees.  And in doing so, the Act balances three competing goals.  First, it seeks to discourage American employers from hiring aliens not authorized to work in the United States.  H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, pt. 1, p. 56 (1986).
     Second, Congress wished to avoid "placing an undue burden on employers," id., at 90, and the Act seeks to prevent the "harassment" of "innocent employers," S. Rep. No. 99-132, p. 35 (1985).


     Third, the Act seeks to prevent employers from disfavoring job applicants who appear foreign.  Reiterating longstanding antidiscrimination concerns, the House Committee Report explained:
"Numerous witnesses ... have expressed their deep concern that the imposition of employer sanctions will cause extensive employment discrimination against Hispanic-Americans and other minority group members.  These witnesses are genuinely concerned that employers, faced with the possibility of civil and criminal penalties, will be extremely reluctant to hire persons because of their linguistic or physical characteristics."  H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 68.

See also 42 U. S. C. §2000e-2(a)(1) (making it an "unlawful employment practice" for an employer to discriminate against an individual "because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin"); U. S. Commission on Civil Rights, The Tarnished Golden Door: Civil Rights Issues in Immigration 74 (1980) (finding that "increased employment discrimination against United States citizens and legal residents who are racially and culturally iden-tifiable with major immigrant groups could be the un-intended result of an employer sanctions law").  The Committee concluded that "every effort must be taken to minimize the potentiality of discrimination."  H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 68.
B

     The Act reconciles these competing objectives in several ways:
     First, the Act prohibits employers from hiring an alien knowing that the alien is unauthorized to work in the United States.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(a)(1)(A).


     Second, the Act provides an easy-to-use mechanism that will allow employers to determine legality: the I-9 form.  In completing an I-9 form, the employer certifies that he or she has examined one or two documents (e.g., a passport, or a driver's license along with a Social Security card) that tend to confirm the worker's identity and employability.  §1324a(b)(1).  Completion of the form in good faith immunizes the employer from liability, even if the worker turns out to be unauthorized.  §§1324a(a)(3), 1324a(b)(6).


     A later amendment to the law also allows an employer to verify an employee's work eligibility through an Internet-based federal system called E-Verify.  If the em-ployer does so, he or she will receive the benefit of a rebuttable presumption of compliance.  Illegal Immigration Re-form and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), §402(b), 110 Stat. 3009-656 to 3009-657, note following 8 U. S. C. §1324a, p. 331 (Pilot Programs for Employment Eligibility Confirmation).


     Third, the Act creates a central enforcement mechanism.  The Act directs the Attorney General to establish a single set of procedures for receiving complaints, investigating those complaints that "have a substantial proba-bility of validity," and prosecuting violations.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(e)(1).  The relevant immigration officials and administrative law judges have the power to access necessary evidence and witnesses, §1324a(e)(2), and the employer has the right to seek discovery from the Federal Government, 28 CFR §68.18 (2010).  The employer also has the right to administrative and judicial review of the administrative law judge's decision.  §§68.54, 68.56.


     Fourth, the Act makes it "an unfair immigration-related employment practice ... to discriminate against any individual" in respect to employment "because of such individual's national origin."  8 U. S. C. §1324b(a).


     Fifth, the Act sets forth a carefully calibrated sanction system.  The penalties for hiring unauthorized aliens are graduated to prevent the Act from unduly burdening employers who are not serious offenders.  As adjusted for inflation, civil penalties for a first violation of the employment restrictions range from $375-$3,200 per worker, and rise to $3,200-$16,000 per worker for repeat offenders.  §1324a(e)(4)(A); 73 Fed. Reg. 10133 (2008); see also §1324a(f) (imposing criminal fines of not more than $3,000 per worker and imprisonment for up to six months for "pattern or practice" violators of employment restrictions).


     As importantly, the Act limits or removes any incentive to discriminate on the basis of national origin by setting antidiscrimination fines at equivalent levels: $375-$3,200 per worker for first-time offenders, and $3,200-$16,000 per worker for repeat offenders.  §1324b(g)(2)(B)(iv); 73 Fed. Reg. 10134.  The Act then ties its unlawful employment and antidiscrimination provisions together by providing that, should the antihiring provisions terminate, the antidiscrimination provisions will also terminate, §1324b(k), "the justification for them having been removed," H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 99-1000, p. 87 (1986).
C

     Now, compare and contrast Arizona's statute.  As I have said, that statute applies to virtually all business-related licenses, other than professional licenses.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(9).  Like the federal Act, the state law forbids the employment of unauthorized aliens.  §§23-212(A), 23-212.01(A).  It also provides employers with somewhat similar defenses.  §§23-212(I)-(J), 23-212.01(I)-(J).  But thereafter the state and federal laws part company.
     First, the state statute seriously threatens the federal Act's antidiscriminatory objectives by radically skewing the relevant penalties.  For example, in the absence of the Arizona statute, an Arizona employer who intentionally hires an unauthorized alien for the second time would risk a maximum penalty of $6,500.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(e)(4) (A)(ii); 73 Fed. Reg. 10133.  But the Arizona statute subjects that same employer (in respect to the same two incidents) to mandatory, permanent loss of the right to do business in Arizona-a penalty that Arizona's Governor has called the "business death penalty."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212.01(F)(2); News Release, Governor Signs Employer Sanctions Bill (2007), App. 399.  At the same time, the state law leaves the other side of the punishment balance--the antidiscrimination side--unchanged.


     This is no idle concern.  Despite the federal Act's efforts to prevent discriminatory practices, there is evidence that four years after it had become law, discrimination was a serious problem.  In 1990, the General Accounting Office identified "widespread discrimination ... as a result of " the Act.  Report to the Congress, Immigration Reform: Employer Sanctions and the Question of Discrimination 3, 37, 80.  Sixteen percent of employers in Los Angeles admitted that they applied the I-9 requirement "only to foreign-looking or foreign-sounding persons," and 22 percent of Texas employers reported that they "began a practice to (1) hire only persons born in the United States or (2) not hire persons with temporary work eligibility documents" because of the Act.  Id., at 41-43.  If even the federal Act (with its carefully balanced penalties) can result in some employers discriminating, how will employers behave when erring on the side of discrimination leads only to relatively small fines, while erring on the side of hiring unauthorized workers leads to the "business death penalty"?


     Second, Arizona's law subjects lawful employers to in-creased burdens and risks of erroneous prosecution.  In addition to the Arizona law's severely burdensome sanctions, the law's procedures create enforcement risks not present in the federal system.  The federal Act creates one centralized enforcement scheme, run by officials versed in immigration law and with access to the relevant federal documents.  The upshot is an increased likelihood that federal officials (or the employer) will discover whether adverse information flows from an error-prone source and that they will proceed accordingly, thereby diminishing the likelihood that burdensome proceedings and liability reflect documentary mistakes.


     Contrast the enforcement system that Arizona's statute creates.  Any citizen of the State can complain (anonymously or otherwise) to the state attorney general (or any county attorney), who then "shall investigate," Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(B) (emphasis added), and, upon a determination that that the "complaint is not false and frivolous ... shall notify the appropriate county attorney to bring an action," §23-212(C)(3).  This mandatory language, the lower standard ("not frivolous" instead of  "substantial"), and the removal of immigration officials from the state screening process (substituting numerous, elected county attorneys) increase the likelihood that suspicious circumstances will lead to prosecutions and liability of employers--even where more careful investigation would have revealed that there was no violation.


     Again, this matter is far from trivial.  Studies of one important source of Government information--the E-Verify system--describe how the federal administrative process corrected that system's tentative "unemployable" indications 18% of the time.  This substantial error rate is not a function of a small sample size.  See ante, at 26, n. 12.  Rather, data from one fiscal year showed 46,921 workers initially rejected but later "confirmed as work authorized"--all while E-Verify was used by only a fraction of the Nation's employers. U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Statistics and Reports, http:// www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis/menuitem.eb1d4c2a3e5b9a c89243c6a7543f6d1a / ?vgnextchannel =7c579589cdb76210V gnVCM100000b92ca60aRCRD (Feb. 4, 2011) (as visited May 18, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).  That is to say nearly one-in-five times that the E-Verify system suggested that an individual was not lawfully employable (i.e., returned a tentative nonconfirmation of work authorization), the system was wrong; and subsequent review in the federal administrative process determined as much.  (And those wrongly identified were likely to be persons of foreign, rather than domestic, origin, by a ratio of approximately 20 to 1.)  See Westat, Findings of the E-Verify Program Evaluation xxxi, 210, 246 (Dec. 2009) (assessing data from April to June 2008).  E-Verify's accuracy rate is even worse "in states that require the use of E-Verify for all or some of their employees."  Id., at 122.


     A related provision of the state law aggravates the risk of erroneous prosecutions.  The state statute says that in "determining whether an employee is an unauthorized alien, the court shall consider only the federal government's determination pursuant to 8 [U. S. C.] §1373(c)."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(H).  But the federal provision to which the state law refers, 8 U. S. C. §1373(c), says only that the Federal Government, upon a State's request, shall verify a person's "citizenship or immigration status."  It says nothing about work authorization.  See post, at 7-10 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  It says nothing about the source of the Federal Government's information.  It imposes no duty upon the Federal Government or anyone else to investigate the validity of that information, which may falsely implicate an employer 18% of the time.


     So what is the employer to do?  What statute gives an employer whom the State proceeds against in state court the right to conduct discovery against the Federal Government?  The Arizona statute, like the federal statute, says that the employer's use of an I-9 form provides a defense.  But there is a hitch.  The federal Act says that neither the I-9 form, nor "any information contained in or appended to" the form, "may ... be used for pur-poses other than for enforcement of this" federal Act.  §1324a(b)(5).  So how can the employer present a defense, say, that the Government's information base is flawed?  The majority takes the view that the forms are not necessary to receive the benefit of the affirmative defense.  Ante, at 18, n. 9.  But the I-9 form would surely be the employer's most effective evidence.  See also post, at 11 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (suggesting that the unavailability of I-9 forms to defend against state-court charges means that Congress "intended no such" proceedings).


     Nor does the Arizona statute facilitate the presentation of a defense when it immediately follows (1) its statement that "the court shall consider only the federal government's determination" when it considers "whether an employee is an unauthorized alien" with (2) its statement that "[t]he federal government's determination creates a rebuttable presumption of the employee's lawful status."  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(H) (emphasis added).  The two statements sound as if they mean that a Federal Government determination that the worker is unlawful is conclusive against the employer, but its determination that the worker's employment is lawful is subject to rebuttal by the State.  Arizona tells us that the statute means the opposite.  See ante, at 16, n. 7.  But the legal briefs of Arizona's attorney general do not bind the state courts.  And until the matter is cleared up, employers, despite I-9 checks, despite efforts to use E-Verify, will hesitate to hire those they fear will turn out to lack the right to work in the United States.


     And that is my basic point.  Either directly or through the uncertainty that it creates, the Arizona statute will impose additional burdens upon lawful employers and consequently lead those employers to erect ever stronger safeguards against the hiring of unauthorized aliens--without counterbalancing protection against unlawful discrimination.  And by defining "licensing" so broadly, by bringing nearly all businesses within its scope, Arizona's statute creates these effects statewide.


     Why would Congress, after deliberately limiting ordinary penalties to the range of a few thousand dollars per illegal worker, want to permit far more drastic state penalties that would directly and mandatorily destroy entire businesses?  Why would Congress, after carefully balancing sanctions to avoid encouraging discrimination, want to allow States to destroy that balance?  Why would Congress, after creating detailed procedural protections for employers, want to allow States to undermine them?  Why would Congress want to write into an express pre-emption provision--a provision designed to prevent States from undercutting federal statutory objectives--an exception that could so easily destabilize its efforts?  The answer to these questions is that Congress would not have wanted to do any of these things.  And that fact indicates that the majority's reading of the licensing exception--a reading that would allow what Congress sought to forbid--is wrong.
II

     The federal licensing exception cannot apply to a state statute that, like Arizona's statute, seeks to bring virtually all articles of incorporation and partnership certificates within its scope.  I would find the scope of the exception to federal pre-emption to be far more limited.  Context, purpose, and history make clear that the "licensing and similar laws" at issue involve employment-related licensing systems.
     The issuance of articles of incorporation and partnership certificates and the like have long had little or nothing to do with hiring or "employment."  Indeed, Arizona provides no evidence that any State, at the time the federal Act was enacted, had refused to grant or had revoked, say, partnership certificates, in light of the partners' hiring practices of any kind, much less the hiring of unauthorized aliens.  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §29-308 (limited partnership formed upon the filing of a certificate of partnership providing names and addresses); §29-345 (providing for dissolution of a limited partnership "[o]n application by or for a partner or assignee ... whenever it is not reasonably practicable to carry on the business in conformity with the partnership agreement").


     To read the exception as covering laws governing corporate charters and partnership certificates (which are not usually called "licensing" laws) is to permit States to turn virtually every permission-related state law into an employment-related "licensing" law.  The State need only call the permission a "license" and revoke the license should its holder hire an unauthorized alien.  If what was not previously an employment-related licensing law can become one simply by using it as a sanction for hiring unauthorized aliens or simply by state definition, indeed, if the State can call a corporate charter an employment-related licensing law, then why not an auto licensing law (amended to revoke the driver's licenses of those who hire unauthorized aliens)?  Why not a dog licensing law?  Or why not "impute" a newly required license to conduct any business to every human being in the State, withdrawing that license should that individual hire an unauthorized alien?  See S. C. Code Ann. §41-8-20 (Supp. 2010) (providing that "[a]ll private employers in South Carolina ... shall be imputed a South Carolina employment license, which permits a private employer to employ a person in this State," but conditioning the license on the company's not hiring unauthorized aliens).


     Such laws might prove more effective in stopping the hiring of unauthorized aliens.  But they are unlikely to do so consistent with Congress' other critically important goals, in particular, Congress' efforts to protect from discrimination legal workers who look or sound foreign.  That is why we should read the federal exemption's "licensing" laws as limited to those that involve the kind of licensing that, in the absence of this general state statute, would nonetheless have some significant relation to employment or hiring practices.  Otherwise we read the federal "licensing" exception as authorizing a State to undermine, if not to swallow up, the federal pre-emption rule.
III

     I would therefore read the words "licensing and similar laws" as covering state licensing systems applicable primarily to the licensing of firms in the business of recruiting or referring workers for employment, such as the state agricultural labor contractor licensing schemes in existence when the federal Act was created.  This reading is consistent with the provision's history and language, and it minimizes the risk of harm of the kind just described.
     The Act's history supports this interpretation.  Ever since 1964, the Federal Government has administered statutes that create a federal licensing scheme for agricultural labor contractors, firms that specialize in recruiting agricultural workers and referring them to farmers for a fee.  Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act of 1963 (FLCRA), 78 Stat. 920; Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (AWPA), 96 Stat. 2583.  The statutes require agricultural labor contractors to register with the federal Secretary of Labor, to obtain a registration certificate (in effect a license), and to require the contractor's employees to carry that certificate with them when engaging in agricultural labor contracting activities.  AWPA §101; FLCRA §4.  The statutes list a host of forbidden activities, one of which (prior to 1986) was hiring unauthorized aliens.  See AWPA §§103, 106; FLCRA §5(b).  Prior to 1986, if the federal Labor Department believed a firm had violated these substantive provisions, it could institute administrative proceedings within the Labor Department.  And if the Secretary found the labor contracting firm had violated the provisions, the Secretary could impose monetary penalties or withdraw the firm's registration.  AWPA §§103, 503; FLCRA §§5(b), 9.


     Most important, and unlike the 1986 Act before us, the earlier agricultural labor contracting statutes did not pre-empt similar state laws.  To the contrary, the earlier Acts were "intended to supplement State law" and did not "excuse any person from compliance with appropriate State law and regulation."  AWPA §521; see FLCRA §12.  By 1986, nearly a dozen States had developed state licensing systems for agricultural labor contractors, i.e., firms that recruited and referred farm (and sometimes forestry) workers for a fee; some of these laws provided that state licenses could be revoked if the contractors hired unauthorized aliens.  See, e.g., Cal. Lab. Code §1690(f) (Deering Supp. 1991); 43 Pa. Cons. Stat. §§1301.503(4), 1301.505(3) (1965-1983 Supp. Pamphlet); Ore. Rev. Stat. §§658.405(1), 658.440(2)(d) (1987) (covering forestry workers).


     In 1986, Congress (when enacting the Act now before us) focused directly upon the earlier federal agricultural labor contractor licensing system.  And it changed that earlier system by including a series of conforming amendments in the Act.  One amendment removes from the earlier statutes the specific prohibition against hiring unauthorized aliens.  It thereby makes agricultural labor contractors subject to the Act's similar general prohibition against such hiring.  IRCA §101(b)(1)(C) (repealing AWPA §106).  Another amendment takes from the Secretary of Labor most of the Secretary's enforcement powers in respect to the hiring of unauthorized aliens.  It thereby leaves agricultural labor contractors subject to the same single unified enforcement system that the immigration Act applies to all employers.  See 29 U. S. C. §1853.  A third amendment, however, leaves with the Secretary of Labor the power to withdraw the federal registration certificate from an agricultural labor contractor that hired unauthorized aliens.  IRCA §101(b)(1)(B)(iii), 29 U. S. C. §1813(a)(6).  Thus, the Act leaves this subset of employers (i.e., agricultural labor contractors but not other employers) subject to a federal licensing scheme.


     So far, the conforming amendments make sense.  But have they not omitted an important matter?  Prior to 1986, States as well as the Federal Government could license agricultural labor contractors.  Should the 1986 statute not say whether Congress intended that dual system to continue?  The answer is that the 1986 Act does not omit this matter.  It answers the coexistence question directly with the parenthetical phrase we are now considering, namely, the phrase, "other than through licensing and similar laws," placed in the middle of the Act's pre-emption provision.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).  That phrase refers to agricultural labor contractors, and it says that, in respect to those licensing schemes, dual state/federal licensing can continue.


     As of 1986, there were strong reasons for permitting that dual system to continue in this specialized area.  Dual enforcement had proved helpful in preventing particularly serious employment abuses.  See, e.g., 128 Cong. Rec. 24090 (1982) (reflecting concerns that agricultural workers were "housed in hovels; ... subjected to physical abuse and kept in virtual slavery").  And because the contractors' business consists of providing labor forces, their hiring of authorized workers is closely related to their general fitness to do business.  See S. Rep. No. 202, 88th Cong., 1st Sess., 1 (1963) (explaining that farm labor contractor registration laws are needed to prevent "irresponsible crew leaders" from "exploit[ing] ... farmers"); Martin, Good Intentions Gone Awry: IRCA and U. S. Agriculture, 534 Annals Am. Acad. Pol. & Soc. Sci. 44, 49 (1994) (describing how farmers who relied on contractors risked losing their labor forces to immigration raids).  Dual enforcement would not create a federal/state penalty disparity, for federal systems as well as state systems provide for license revocation.  Experience had shown that dual enforcement had not created any serious conflict or other difficulty.  And in light of the specialized nature and comparatively small set of businesses subject to dual enforcement, to permit licensing of that set of businesses would not seriously undermine the objectives of the Act or its pre-emption provision.


     Thus, it is not surprising that the legislative history of the 1986 Act's pre-emption provision says that the licensing exception is about the licensing of agricultural labor contractors.  The House Report on the Act, referring to the licensing exception, states that the Committee did "not intend to preempt licensing or 'fitness to do business laws,' such as state farm labor contractor laws or forestry laws, which specifically require such licensee or contractor to refrain from hiring, recruiting or referring undocumented aliens."  H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 58 (emphasis added).


     The Act's language, while not requiring this interpretation, is nonetheless consistent with limiting the scope of the phrase in this way.  Context can limit the application of the term "licensing" to particular types of licensing.  The Act's subject matter itself limits the term to employment-related licensing.  And the Act's specific reference to those who "recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens," is consistent with employment-related li-censing that focuses primarily upon labor contracting businesses.


     Thus, reading the phrase as limited in scope to laws licensing businesses that recruit or refer workers for employment is consistent with the statute's language, with the relevant history, and with other statutory provisions in the Act.  That reading prevents state law from undermining the Act and from turning the pre-emption clause on its head.  That is why I consider it the better reading of the statute.
IV

     Another section of the Arizona statute requires "every employer, after hiring an employee," to "verify the employment eligibility of the employee" through the Federal Government's E-Verify program.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-214.  This state provision makes participation in the federal E-Verify system mandatory for virtually all Arizona employers.  The federal law governing the E-Verify program, however, creates a program that is voluntary.  By making mandatory that which federal law seeks to make voluntary, the state provision stands as a significant " 'obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress,' " Crosby, 530 U. S., at 373 (quoting Hines, 312 U. S., at 67).  And it is consequently pre-empted.
     The federal statute itself makes clear that participation in the E-Verify program is voluntary.  The statute's relevant section bears the title "Voluntary Election to Participate in a Pilot Program."  IIRIRA §402, note following 8 U. S. C. §1324a, p. 331.  A subsection bears the further title, "Voluntary Election."  §402(a).  And within that subsection, the statute says that employers "may elect to participate."  (Emphasis added.)  The statute elsewhere requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to "widely publicize ... the voluntary nature" of the program.  §402(d)(2); see also §402(d)(3)(A) (requiring the designation of local officials to advertise the "voluntary nature" of the program).  It adds that employers may "terminate" their "election" to participate by following certain procedures.  §402(c)(3).  And it tells the Secretary of Homeland Security (as an earlier version told the Attorney General) that she "may not require any person or other entity to participate."  §402(a); see also §402(e) (creating exceptions, none of which is applicable here, that require federal employers and certain others to participate in E-Verify or another pilot program).


     Congress had strong reasons for insisting on the voluntary nature of the program.  E-Verify was conceived as, and remains, a pilot program.  Its database consists of tens of millions of Social Security and immigration records kept by the Federal Government.  These records are prone to error.  See, e.g., Office of the Inspector General, Social Security Administration, Congressional Response Report: Accuracy of the Social Security Administration's Numident File 12 (2006) (hereinafter Social Security Report) (estimating that 3.3 million naturalized citizens are misclassified in a Social Security database used by E-Verify); GAO, Employment Verification: Federal Agencies Have Taken Steps to Improve E-Verify, but Significant Challenges Remain 16 (GAO-11-146, 2010) (hereinafter GAO Report) (noting that "erroneous [nonconfirmations] related to name inconsistencies ... remain an issue" that "can create the appearance of discrimination because of their disparate impact on certain cultural groups").  And making the program mandatory would have been hugely expensive.  See post, at 16 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).


     The E-Verify program is still a pilot program, as a matter of statute and practice.  See IIRIRA §401; Letter from H. Couch to R. Stana (Dec. 8, 2010) (discussing aspects of E-Verify that have yet to be implemented).  The effects of the program's efforts to take account of, and correct for, potential errors remain uncertain.  Congress could decide that, based on the results of the pilot, E-Verify should become a mandatory program.  But it has not yet made that determination.  And in making that decision, it will have to face a number of questions: Will workers receiving tentative negative verdicts understand the possibility of administrative challenge?  Will they make the effort to invoke that process, say traveling from a farm to an urban Social Security office?  Will employers prove willing to undergo the financial burden of supporting a worker who might lose the challenge?  Will employers hesitate to train those workers during the time they bring their challenges?  Will employers simply hesitate to hire workers who might receive an initial negative verdict--more likely those who look or sound foreign?  Or will they find ways to dismiss those workers?  These and other unanswered questions convinced Congress to make E-Verify a pilot program, to commission continuous study and evaluation, and to insist that participation be voluntary.


     In co-opting a federal program and changing the key terms under which Congress created that program, Arizona's mandatory state law simply ignores both the federal language and the reasoning it reflects, thereby posing an " 'obstacle to the accomplishment' " of the objectives Congress' statute evinces.  Crosby, supra, at 373 (quoting Hines, supra, at 67).


     The majority reaches a contrary conclusion by pointing out (1) that Congress has renewed the E-Verify program several times, each time expanding its coverage, to the point where it now encompasses all 50 States; (2) that the E-Verify database has become more accurate; (3) that the Executive Branch has itself mandated participation for federal contractors; and (4) that the statute's language tells the Secretary of Homeland Security, not the States, to maintain the program as voluntary.


     The short, and, I believe, conclusive answers to these objections are: (1) Congress has kept the language of the statute--and the voluntary nature of the program--the same throughout its program renewals.  See 115 Stat. 2407; 117 Stat. 1944; §547, 123 Stat. 2177.  And it is up to Congress, not to Arizona or this Court, to decide when participation in the program should cease to be voluntary.


     (2) The studies and reports have repeatedly found both (a) that the E-Verify program had achieved greater accuracy, but (b) that problems remain.  See, e.g., Social Security Report 11 (estimating that Social Security records contain 4.8 million "discrepancies that could require the numberholder to visit [the Social Security Administration] ... before employment eligibility would be confirmed"); GAO Report 19 (estimating that, if E-Verify were made mandatory nationwide, 164,000 newly hired workers each year would erroneously be adjudged ineligible to work because of name mismatches, as when the worker's "first or last name is incorrectly spelled in government databases or on identification documents").  And it is up to Congress, not to Arizona or this Court, to determine when the federally designed and federally run E-Verify program is ready for expansion.


     (3) Federal contractors are a special group of employers, subject to many special requirements, who enter voluntarily into a special relation with the Government.  For the Federal Government to mandate that a special group participate in the E-Verify program tells us little or nothing about the effects of a State's mandating that nearly every employer within the State participate--as Arizona has done.  And insofar as we have not determined whether the Executive was authorized by Congress to mandate E-Verify for federal contractors, it says nothing about Congress' intent.


     (4) There is no reason to imply negatively from language telling the Secretary not to make the program mandatory, permission for the States to do so.  There is no presumption that a State may modify the operation of a uniquely federal program like E-Verify.  Cf. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341, 347-348 (2001); Boyle v. United Technologies Corp., 487 U. S. 500, 504-505 (1988); see also post, at 15-16 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  The remaining federal statutory language makes clear the voluntary nature of the E-Verify program.  Arizona's plan would undermine that federal objective.


     For these reasons I would hold that the federal Act, including its E-Verify provisions, pre-empts Arizona's state law.  With respect, I dissent from the majority's contrary holdings.


CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, et al., PETITIONERS v. MICHAEL  B. WHITING et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[May 26, 2011]

     Justice Sotomayor, dissenting.

     In enacting the Immigration Reform and Control Act  of 1986 (IRCA), 100 Stat. 3359, Congress created a "comprehensive scheme prohibiting the employment of illegal aliens in the United States."  Hoffman Plastic Compounds, Inc. v. NLRB, 535 U. S. 137, 147 (2002).  The Court reads IRCA's saving clause--which preserves from pre-emption state "licensing and similar laws," 8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2)--to permit States to determine for themselves whether someone has employed an unauthorized alien so long as they do so in conjunction with licensing sanctions.  This reading of the saving clause cannot be reconciled with the rest of IRCA's comprehensive scheme.  Having constructed a federal mechanism for determining whether someone has knowingly employed an unauthorized alien, and having withheld from the States the information necessary to make that determination, Congress could not plausibly have intended for the saving clause to operate in the way the majority reads it to do.  When viewed in context, the saving clause can only be understood to preserve States' authority to impose licensing sanctions after a final federal determination that a person has violated IRCA by knowingly employing an unauthorized alien.  Because the Legal Arizona Workers Act instead creates a separate state mechanism for Arizona state courts to determine whether a person has employed an unauthorized alien, I would hold that it falls outside the saving clause and is pre-empted.


     I would also hold that federal law pre-empts the provision of the Arizona Act making mandatory the use of  E-Verify, the federal electronic verification system.  By requiring Arizona employers to use E-Verify, Arizona has effectively made a decision for Congress regarding use of a federal resource, in contravention of the significant policy objectives motivating Congress' decision to make participation in the E-Verify program voluntary.
I
A

     I begin with the plain text of IRCA's pre-emption clause.  IRCA expressly pre-empts States from "imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar laws) upon those who employ, or recruit or refer for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."1 Ibid.  The Arizona Act, all agree, imposes civil sanctions upon those who employ unauthorized aliens.  The Act thus escapes express pre-emption only if it falls within IRCA's parenthetical saving clause for "licensing and similar laws."  Ibid.
     The saving clause is hardly a paragon of textual clarity.  IRCA does not define "licensing," nor does it use the word "licensing" in any other provision.  Laws that impose sanctions by means of licensing exist in many forms.  Some permit authorities to take action with respect to licenses upon finding that a licensee has engaged in prohibited conduct.  See, e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §4-210(A)(1) (West 2011) (liquor licenses may be suspended or revoked if the licensing authority determines after notice and a hearing that repeated acts of violence have occurred on the licensed premises).  Others, more narrowly, permit authorities to take such action following a pre-existing determination by another authorized body that the licensee has violated another provision of law.  See, e.g., §4-202(D) (liquor licenses may not be renewed to persons who have been convicted of felonies within the past five years).  That both types of laws might be defined in some contexts as licensing laws does not necessarily mean that Congress intended the saving clause to encompass both types.  See Dolan v. Postal Service, 546 U. S. 481, 486 (2006) ("A word in a statute may or may not extend to the outer limits of its definitional possibilities"); see also FCC v. AT&T; Inc., 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 9) ("[C]onstruing statutory language is not merely an exercise in ascertaining the outer limits of [a word's] definitional possibilities" (internal quotation marks omitted; second alteration in original)).  In isolation, the text of IRCA's saving clause provides no hint as to which type or types of licensing laws Congress had in mind.
B

     Because the plain text of the saving clause does not resolve the question, it is necessary to look to the text  of IRCA as a whole to illuminate Congress' intent.  See Dolan, 546 U. S., at 486 ("Interpretation of a word or phrase depends upon reading the whole statutory text, considering the purpose and context of the statute"); Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 222 (2008) (construction of a statutory term "must, to the extent possible, ensure that the statutory scheme is coherent and consistent"); Davis v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury, 489 U. S. 803, 809 (1989) ("[St]tatutory language cannot be construed in a vacuum.  It is a fundamental canon of statutory construction that the words of a statute must be read in their context and with a view to their place in the overall statutory scheme").2
     Before Congress enacted IRCA in 1986, a number of States had enacted legislation prohibiting employment of unauthorized aliens.  See ante, at 2, and n. 1 (citing 12 such laws).  California, for example, prohibited the knowing employment of an alien "who is not entitled to lawful residence in the United States" when "such employment would have an adverse effect on lawful resident workers," and made violations punishable by fines of $200 to $500.  1971 Cal. Stats. ch. 1442, §1; see also De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351, 352, n. 1 (1976).  Kansas went even further, making it a misdemeanor, punishable by a term of confinement not to exceed one month, to employ a person within Kansas knowing "such person to be illegally within the territory of the United States."  Kan. Stat. Ann. §§21-4409, 21-4502 (1981).3


     Congress enacted IRCA amidst this patchwork of state laws.  IRCA " 'forcefully' made combating the employment of illegal aliens central to 'the policy of immigration law.' "  Hoffman, 535 U. S., at 147 (quoting INS v. National Center for Immigrants' Rights, Inc., 502 U. S. 183, 194, and n. 8 (1991); brackets omitted); see also H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, pt. 1, p. 46 (1986) (hereinafter H. R. Rep. No. 99-682) ("[L]egislation containing employer sanctions is the most humane, credible and effective way to respond to the large-scale influx of undocumented aliens").  As the majority explains, IRCA makes it "unlawful for a person or other entity to hire, or to recruit or refer for a fee, for employment in the United States an alien knowing the alien is an unauthorized alien."  §1324a(a)(1)(A); ante, at 3.  IRCA also requires employers to verify that they have reviewed documents establishing an employee's eligibility for employment.  See §1324a(b); ante, at 3-4.  These two provisions are the foundation of IRCA's "comprehensive scheme prohibiting the employment of illegal aliens in the United States."  Hoffman, 535 U. S., at 147.


     Congress made explicit its intent that IRCA be enforced uniformly.  IRCA declares that "[i]t is the sense of the Congress that ... the immigration laws of the United States should be enforced vigorously and uniformly."  §115, 100 Stat. 3384 (emphasis added).  Congress structured IRCA's provisions in a number of ways to accomplish this goal of uniform enforcement.


     First, and most obviously, Congress expressly displaced the myriad state laws that imposed civil and criminal sanctions on employers who hired unauthorized aliens.  See §1324a(h)(2); see also H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 58 ("The penalties contained in this legislation are intended to specifically preempt any state or local laws providing civil fines and/or criminal sanctions on the hiring, recruitment or referral of undocumented aliens").  Congress could not have made its intent to pre-empt state and local laws imposing civil or criminal sanctions any more " 'clear [or] manifest.' "  Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 485 (1996) (quoting Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947)).


     Second, Congress centralized in the Federal Government enforcement of IRCA's prohibition on the knowing employment of unauthorized aliens.  IRCA instructs the Attorney General to designate a specialized federal agency unit whose "primary duty" will be to prosecute violations of IRCA.  §1324a(e)(1)(D).  IRCA also instructs the Attorney General to establish procedures for receiving complaints, investigating complaints having "a substantial probability of validity," and investigating other violations.  §1324a(e)(1); see also 8 CFR §274a.9 (2010).  Upon concluding that a person has violated IRCA, the Attorney General must provide the person with notice and an opportunity for a hearing before a federal administrative law judge (ALJ). 8 U. S. C. §§1324a(e)(3)(A), (B).  If the person does not request a hearing, the Attorney General may impose a final, nonappealable order requiring payment of sanctions.  §1324a(e)(3)(B).  If the person requests a hearing, the ALJ is required to hold a hearing and, upon finding that the person has violated IRCA, must order the payment of sanctions.  §1324a(e)(3)(C).  The ALJ's order is the final agency order, unless the affected person requests and obtains further administrative appellate review.  §1324a(e)(7); see also 28 CFR §68.54 (2010).  IRCA grants immigration officers and ALJs "reasonable access to  examine evidence of any person or entity being investigated" and provides them with extensive subpoena powers.  §1324a(e)(2).  And the immigration officers investigating suspected violations obviously have access to the relevant federal information concerning the work authorization status of the employee in question.4


     Third, Congress provided persons "adversely affected" by an agency order with a right of review in the federal courts of appeals.  §1324a(e)(8); see also §1324a(e)(9) (directing the Attorney General in cases of noncompliance to file suit in federal district court to enforce a final order imposing sanctions); §1324a(f) (authorizing the Attorney General to pursue injunctive relief and criminal sanctions in federal district court).  In this way, Congress ensured that administrative orders finding violations of IRCA would be reviewed by federal judges with experience adjudicating immigration-related matters.


     Fourth, Congress created a uniquely federal system by which employers must verify the work authorization status of new hires.  Under this system, an employer must attest under penalty of perjury on a form designated by the Attorney General (the I-9 form) that it has examined enumerated identification documents to verify that a new hire is not an unauthorized alien.  §1324a(b)(1)(A); see also 8 CFR §274a.2; ante, at 3-4.  Good-faith compliance with this verification requirement entitles an employer to an affirmative defense if charged with violating IRCA.  §1324a(a)(3); see also H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 57.  Notably, however, IRCA prohibits use of the I-9 form for any purpose other than enforcement of IRCA and various provisions of federal criminal law.  §1324a(b)(5); 8 CFR §274a.2(b)(4).  Use of the I-9 form is thus limited to federal proceedings, as the majority acknowledges.  See ante, at 18, n. 9.


     Finally, Congress created no mechanism for States to access information regarding an alien's work authorization status for purposes of enforcing state prohibitions on the employment of unauthorized aliens.  The relevant sections of IRCA make no provision for the sharing of work authorization information between federal and state authorities even though access to that information would be critical to a State's ability to determine whether an employer has employed an unauthorized alien.  In stark contrast, a separate provision in the same title of IRCA creates a verification system by which States can ascertain the immigration status of aliens applying for benefits under programs such as Medicaid and the food stamp program.  See IRCA §121(a)(1)(C), 42 U. S. C. §1320b-7(d)(3).  The existence of a verification system in one provision of IRCA, coupled with its absence in the provision governing employment of unauthorized aliens, suggests strongly that Congress did not contemplate any role for the States in adjudicating questions regarding employment of unauthorized aliens.  Cf. Bates v. United States, 522 U. S. 23, 29-30 (1997) ("Where Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion" (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted)).


     In an attempt to show that Congress intended for the Federal Government to share immigration-related in-formation with the States, Arizona points to a federal statute, 8 U. S. C. §1373(c), requiring the Government to respond to certain inquiries from state agencies.  Section 1373(c), however, merely requires the Government to respond to inquiries from state agencies "seeking to verify or ascertain the citizenship or immigration status of any individual within the jurisdiction of the agency."  It does not require the provision of information regarding an alien's work authorization status, which is not necessarily synonymous with immigration status.  See 8 CFR §274a.12(c) (identifying categories of legal aliens "who must apply for employment authorization").5  Arizona has not identified any federal statute or regulation requiring the Federal Government to provide information regarding an alien's work authorization status to a State.6  More importantly, §1373(c) was enacted in 1996, see §642(c), 110 Stat. 3009-707, and thus says nothing about Congress' intent when it enacted IRCA's saving clause a decade earlier.  See Jones v. United States, 526 U. S. 227, 238 (1999).


     Collectively, these provisions demonstrate Congress' intent to build a centralized, exclusively federal scheme for determining whether a person has "employ[ed], or recruit[ed] or refer[red] for a fee for employment, unauthorized aliens."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(2).
C

     IRCA's saving clause must be construed against this backdrop.  Focusing primarily on the text of the saving clause, Arizona and the majority read the clause to permit States to determine themselves whether a person has employed an unauthorized alien, so long as they do so in connection with licensing sanctions.  See ante, at 12-13.  This interpretation overlooks the broader statutory context and renders the statutory scheme "[in]coherent and [in]consistent."  Ali, 552 U. S., at 222.
     Under the majority's reading of the saving clause, state prosecutors decide whether to commence licensing-related proceedings against a person suspected of employing an unauthorized alien.  The majority's holding also permits state courts and other tribunals to adjudicate the question whether an employer has employed an unauthorized alien.  The Arizona Act illustrates the problems with reading the saving clause to permit such state action.  The Act directs prosecutors to verify an employee's work authorization with the Federal Government pursuant to §1373(c), e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(B) (West Supp. 2010), and the state court "shall consider only the federal government's determination pursuant to [§]1373(c)" in "determining whether an employee is an unauthorized alien," e.g., §23-212(H).7  Putting aside the question whether §1373(c) actually provides access to work authorization information, §1373(c) did not exist when IRCA was enacted in 1986.  See supra, at 9.  Arizona has not identified any avenue by which States could have accessed work authorization information in the first decade of IRCA's existence.  The absence of any such avenue at the time of IRCA's enactment speaks volumes as to how Congress would have understood the saving clause to operate: If States had no access to information regarding the work authorization status of aliens, how could state courts have accurately adjudicated the question whether an employer had employed an unauthorized alien?


     The Arizona Act's reliance on §1373(c) highlights the anomalies inherent in state schemes that purport to adjudicate whether an employee is an authorized alien.  Even when Arizona prosecutors obtain information regarding  an alien's immigration status pursuant to §1373(c), the prosecutors and state court will have to determine the significance of that information to an alien's work authorization status, which will often require deciding technical questions of immigration law.  See, e.g., 8 CFR §§274a.12(a)-(c) (dividing 62 different classes of aliens into those authorized for employment incident to immigration status, those authorized for employment with a specific employer incident to immigration status, and those who must apply for work authorization).  And, as discussed above, that information may not shed light at all on an alien's work authorization status, which is oftentimes distinct from immigration status.  See supra, at 8, and n. 5.  As a result, in many cases state decisions--made by prosecutors and courts with no or little experience in federal immigration law--will rest on less-than-complete or inaccurate information, "creat[ing] enforcement risks not present in the federal system."  Ante, at 7 (Breyer, J., dissenting).  I can discern no reason why Congress would have intended for state courts inexperienced in immigration matters to adjudicate, in the context of licensing sanctions, the very same question that IRCA commits to federal officers, ALJs, and the courts of appeals.


     Equally problematic is the fact that employers charged under a state enforcement scheme with hiring unauthorized aliens are foreclosed from using I-9 forms in their defense in the state proceedings.  Like IRCA, the Arizona Act confers an affirmative defense on employers who comply in good faith with IRCA's verification requirement.  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§23-212(J), 23-212.01(J).  As discussed above, however, IRCA prohibits an employer from using the I-9 form to establish that affirmative defense under Arizona law.  See 8 U. S. C. §1324a(b)(5); 8 CFR §274a.2(b)(4).  Not to worry, the majority says: The employer can establish the affirmative defense through office policies and testimony of employees.  Ante, at 18, n. 9.  But Congress made the I-9 verification system and accompanying good-faith defense central to IRCA.  See, e.g., H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 60 ("[A]n effective verification procedure, combined with an affirmative defense for those who in good faith follow the procedure, is essential").  Given the importance of this procedure, if Congress in fact intended for state courts to adjudicate whether a person had employed an unauthorized alien in connection with licensing sanctions, why would it have prohibited that person from using the I-9 form--"the employer's most effective evidence," ante, at 9 (Breyer, J., dissenting)--in the state-court proceeding?  The question answers itself: Congress intended no such thing.


     Furthermore, given Congress' express goal of "unifor[m]" enforcement of "the immigration laws of the United States," IRCA §115, 100 Stat. 3384, I cannot believe that Congress intended for the 50 States and countless localities to implement their own distinct enforcement and adjudication procedures for deciding whether employers have employed unauthorized aliens.  Reading the sav-ing clause as the majority does subjects employers to a patchwork of enforcement schemes similar to the one that Congress sought to displace when it enacted IRCA.  Having carefully constructed a uniform federal scheme for determining whether a person has employed an unauthorized alien, Congress could not plausibly have meant to create such a gaping hole in that scheme through the undefined, parenthetical phrase "licensing and similar laws."  See Whitman v. American Trucking Assns., Inc., 531 U. S. 457, 468 (2001) ("Congress ... does not, one might say, hide elephants in mouseholes").


     In sum, the statutory scheme as a whole defeats Arizona's and the majority's reading of the saving clause.  Congress would not sensibly have permitted States to determine for themselves whether a person has employed an unauthorized alien, while at the same time creating a specialized federal procedure for making such a determination, withholding from the States the information necessary to make such a determination, and precluding use of the I-9 forms in nonfederal proceedings.  See United States v. Locke, 529 U. S. 89, 106 (2000) ("We decline to give broad effect to saving clauses where doing so would upset the careful regulatory scheme established by federal law").


     To render IRCA's saving clause consistent with the statutory scheme, I read the saving clause to permit States to impose licensing sanctions following a final federal determination that a person has violated §1324a(a)(1)(A) by knowingly hiring, recruiting, or referring for a fee an unauthorized alien.8  This interpretation both is faithful to the saving clause's text, see supra, at 2-3, and best reconciles the saving clause with IRCA's "careful regulatory scheme," Locke, 529 U. S., at 106.  It also makes sense as a practical matter.  In enacting IRCA's pre-emption clause, Congress vested in the Federal Government the authority to impose civil and criminal sanctions on persons who employ unauthorized aliens.  Licensing and other types of business-related permissions are typically a matter of state law, however.  See, e.g., Kamen v. Kemper Financial Services, Inc., 500 U. S. 90, 98 (1991) (noting that "[c]orporation law" is an area traditionally "governed by state-law standards"); Chicago Title & Trust Co. v. Forty-One Thirty-Six Wilcox Bldg. Corp., 302 U. S. 120, 127 (1937) ("How long and upon what terms a state-created corporation may continue to exist is a matter exclusively of state power").  As a result, if Congress wanted to "ensur[e] that a full range of sanctions [was] available to be used against businesses that employ unauthorized aliens," Brief for Respondent 37, Congress had to authorize the States and localities to impose licensing sanctions following a federal adjudication of a violation of IRCA.


     I do not mean to suggest that the mere existence of a comprehensive federal scheme necessarily reveals a congressional intent to oust state remedies.  Cf. English v. General Elec. Co., 496 U. S. 72, 87 (1990) ("[T]he mere existence of a federal regulatory or enforcement scheme ... does not by itself imply pre-emption of state remedies"); New York State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino, 413 U. S. 405, 415 (1973) (rejecting the argument that "pre-emption is to be inferred merely from the comprehensive character of the federal [program]").  Here, Congress has made clear its intent to oust state civil and criminal remedies; the sole question is the scope of the saving clause's exception for "licensing and similar laws."  The comprehensive scheme established by Congress necessarily informs the scope of this clause.  For all the reasons stated, the only interpretation of that clause that is consistent with the rest of the statute is that it preserves the States' authority to impose licensing sanctions after a final federal determination that a person has violated IRCA's prohibition on the knowing employment of unauthorized aliens.


     Under my construction of the saving clause, the Arizona Act cannot escape pre-emption.  The Act authorizes Arizona county attorneys to commence actions charging an employer with having employed an unauthorized alien.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§23-212(D), 23-212.01(D).  Arizona state courts must find that an employer has employed an unauthorized alien before imposing the sanctions enumerated in the Act.  §§23-212(F), 23-212.01(F).  Because the Act's sanctions are not premised on a final federal determination that an employer has violated IRCA, I would hold that the Act does not fall within IRCA's saving clause and is therefore pre-empted.9
II

     I agree with the conclusion reached by Justice Breyer in Part IV of his dissenting opinion that federal law impliedly pre-empts the provision in the Arizona Act requiring all Arizona employers to use the federal E-Verify program.  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-214.  I also agree with much of his reasoning.  I write separately to offer a few additional observations.
     As we have recently recognized, that a state law makes mandatory something that federal law makes voluntary does not mean, in and of itself, that the state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress," Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 373 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted).  See Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, Inc., 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 1-2) (concluding that a federal regulation permitting manufacturers to choose between two seatbelt options did not pre-empt state tort liability based on a decision to install one of those options); see also id., at ___ (slip op., at 2) (Sotomayor, J., concurring) ("[T]he mere fact that an agency regulation allows manufacturers a choice between options is insufficient to justify implied pre-emption").


     This case, however, is readily distinguishable from cases like Williamson, in which state law regulates relationships between private parties.  Here, the Arizona Act directly regulates the relationship between the Federal Government and private parties by mandating use of a federally created and administered resource.  This case thus implicates the "uniquely federal interes[t]" in managing use of a federal resource.  Boyle v. United Technologies Corp., 487 U. S. 500, 504 (1988) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341, 347 (2001) ("[T]he relationship between a federal agency and the entity it regulates is inherently federal  in character because the relationship originates from, is governed by, and terminates according to federal law").


     Significant policy objectives motivated Congress' decision to make use of E-Verify voluntary.  In addition to those discussed by Justice Breyer, see ante, at 17-19 (dissenting opinion), I note that Congress considered the cost of a mandatory program.  In 2003, when Congress elected to expand E-Verify to all 50 States but declined to require its use, it cited a congressionally mandated report concluding that the annual cost of the pilot program was $6 million, the annual cost of a nationwide voluntary program would be $11 million, and the annual cost of a nationwide mandatory program would be $11.7 billion.  H. R. Rep. No. 108-304, pt. 1, p. 6 (2003); see also Institute for Survey Research, Temple Univ., and Westat, INS Basic Pilot Evaluation: Summary Report 38 (2002) (concluding that the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Immigration and Naturalization Service were not "capable of enrolling and administering a program for the hundreds of thousands of employers in any of the large mandatory programs explored here").  A more recent re-port prepared for the Department of Homeland Security similarly noted the costs associated with mandatory use of E-Verify.  See Westat, Findings of the E-Verify® Program Evaluation 224 (2009) (observing that the SSA estimated that it would have to hire an additional 1,500 field staff  to handle a mandatory national program); id., at 251 (re-commending that any expansion of E-Verify take place gradually "to allow the Federal government adequate time to hire and train the new staff required to run such a program").  Permitting States to make use of E-Verify mandatory improperly puts States in the position of making decisions for the Federal Government that directly affect expenditure and depletion of federal resources.10


     The majority highlights the Government's statement in its amicus brief that " 'the E-Verify system can accommodate the increased use that the Arizona statute and existing similar laws would create.' "  Ante, at 25 (quoting Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 34).  But "[t]he purpose of Congress is the ultimate touchstone in every  pre-emption case."  Medtronic, 518 U. S., at 494 (internal quotation marks omitted).  It matters not whether the Executive Branch believes that the Government is now capable of handling the burdens of a mandatory system.11  Congressional intent controls, and Congress has repeatedly decided to keep the E-Verify program voluntary.  Because state laws requiring use of E-Verify frustrate  the significant policy objectives underlying this decision, thereby imposing explicitly unwanted burdens on the Federal Government, I would hold that federal law impliedly pre-empts the Arizona requirement.
*  *  *

     For these reasons, I cannot agree with either of the Court's holdings in this case.  I respectfully dissent.

FOOTNOTESFootnote **Justice Thomas joins Parts I, II-A, and III-A of this opinion and concurs in the judgment. 
Footnote 1 See Conn. Gen. Stat. §31-51k (1973) (enacted 1972); Del. Code Ann., Tit. 19, §705 (Cum. Supp. 1978) (enacted 1976); Fla. Stat. §448.09 (1981) (enacted 1977); Kan. Stat. Ann. §21-4409 (1981) (enacted 1973); 1985 La. Acts p. 1894; 1977 Me. Acts p. 171; 1976 Mass. Acts p. 641; Mont. Code Ann. §41-121 (1977 Cum. Supp.); N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §275-A:4-a (1986 Cum. Supp.) (enacted 1976); 1977 Vt. Laws p. 320; 1977 Va. Acts ch. 438.
Footnote 2 See, e.g., Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. §8-17.5-102 (2008); Miss. Code Ann. §71-11-3(7)(e) (Supp. 2010); Mo. Rev. Stat. §§285-525, 285-535 (2009 Cum. Supp.); Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 73, §820.311 (Purdon Supp. 2010); S. C. Code Ann. §41-8-50(D)(2) (Supp. 2010); Tenn. Code Ann. §50-1-103(d) (2008); Va. Code Ann. §2.2-4311.1 (Lexis 2008); W. Va. Code Ann. §21-1B-7 (Lexis Supp. 2010).
Footnote 3 Several States have passed statutes mandating the use of E-Verify.  See, e.g., Miss. Code Ann. §71-11-3(3)(d), (4)(b)(i) (Supp. 2010); S. C. Code Ann. §41-8-20(B)-(C) (Supp. 2010); Utah Code Ann. §13-47-201(1) (Lexis Supp. 2010); Va. Code Ann. §40.1-11.2 (Lexis Supp. 2010).
Footnote 4 No suits had been brought under the Arizona law when the complaint in this case was filed.  As of the date that Arizona submitted its merits brief to this Court only three enforcement actions had been pursued against Arizona employers.  See Arizona v. Waterworld Ltd. Partnership, No. CV2009-038848 (Maricopa Cty. Super. Ct., filed Dec. 21, 2009) (resolved by consent judgment); Arizona v. Danny's Subway Inc., No. CV2010-005886 (Maricopa Cty. Super. Ct., filed Mar. 9, 2010) (resolved by consent decree); Arizona v. Scottsdale Art Factory, LLC, No. CV2009-036359 (Maricopa Cty. Super. Ct., filed Nov. 18, 2009) (pending).
Footnote 5 Justice Breyer recognizes that Arizona's definition of the word "license" comports with dictionaries' treatment of the term, but argues that "license" must be read in a more restricted way so as not to include things such as "marriage licenses" and "dog licens[es]."  Post, at 2, 12 (dissenting opinion).  Luckily, we need not address such fanciful hypotheticals; Arizona limits its definition of "license" to those state per-missions issued "for the purposes of operating a business" in the State.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-211(9)(a) (West Supp. 2010).

Justice Breyer's primary concern appears to be that state permissions such as articles of incorporation and partnership certificates are treated as "licensing and similar laws."  Because myriad other licenses are required to operate a business, that concern is largely academic.  See §42-5005(A) (West 2006) (Corporations that receive "gross proceeds of sales or gross income upon which a privilege tax is imposed ... shall make application to the department for a privilege license."  Such a corporation "shall not engage or continue in business until the [corporation] has obtained a privilege license.").  Suspending or revoking an employer's articles of incorporation will often be entirely redundant.  See §§42-5010, 5061-5076 (West 2006 and West Supp. 2010) (describing when transaction privilege tax licenses are required).
Footnote 6 Justice Breyer poses several rhetorical questions challenging our reading of IRCA and then goes on to propose two seemingly alternative views of the phrase "licensing and similar laws"--that it was meant to refer to "employment-related licensing systems," post, at 11 (dissenting opinion) (emphasis deleted), or, even more narrowly, to "the licensing of firms in the business of recruiting or referring workers for employment, such as ... state agricultural labor contractor licensing schemes," post, at 13.  If we are asking questions, a more telling one may be why, if Congress had intended such limited exceptions to its prohibition on state sanctions, it did not simply say so, instead of excepting "licensing and similar laws" generally?

Justice Sotomayor takes a different tack.  Invoking arguments that resemble those found in our implied preemption cases, she concludes that the Arizona law "falls outside" the savings clause and is expressly preempted because it allows "state courts to determine whether a person has employed an unauthorized alien."  Post, at 2 (dissenting opinion).  While Justice Breyer would add language to the statute narrowly limiting the phrase "licensing and similar laws" to specific types of licenses, Justice Sotomayor creates an entirely new statutory requirement: She would allow States to impose sanctions through "licensing and similar laws" only after a federal adjudication.  Such a requirement is found nowhere in the text, and Justice Sotomayor does not even attempt to link it to a specific textual provision.


It should not be surprising that the two dissents have sharply different views on how to read the statute.  That is the sort of thing that can happen when statutory analysis is so untethered from the text.
Footnote 7

 After specifying that a state court may consider "only" the federal determination, the Arizona law goes on to provide that the federal determination is "a rebuttable presumption of the employee's lawful status," Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §23-212(H) (West Supp. 2010).  Arizona explains that this provision does not permit the State to establish unlawful status apart from the federal determination--the provision could hardly do that, given the foregoing.  It instead operates to "ensur[e] that the employer has an opportunity to rebut the evidence presented to establish a worker's unlawful status."  Brief for Respondents 49 (emphasis added).  Only in that sense is the federal determination a "rebuttable presumption."  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46-47.  Giving an employer a chance to show that it did not break the state law certainly does not place the Arizona regime in conflict with federal law.
Footnote 8 State law also prohibits "intentionally" employing an unauthorized alien, §23-212.01(A), a more severe violation of the law.  The Chamber does not suggest that this prohibition is any more problematic than the prohibition on "knowingly" employing an unauthorized alien.
Footnote 9 The Chamber contends that the Arizona law conflicts with federal law because IRCA prohibits the use of the I-9 form and "any information contained in or appended to [it]" from being "used for purposes other than for enforcement of" IRCA and other specified federal laws.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(b)(5).  That argument mistakenly assumes that an employer would need to use the I-9 form or its supporting documents themselves to receive the benefit of the affirmative defense in Arizona court.  In fact, "[a]n employer [could] establish good faith compliance with [the] I-9 process[] ... through testimony of employees and descriptions of office policy."  Brief for Respondents 52; see Tr. of Oral Arg. 33.
Footnote 10 Arizona has since amended its statute to include other consequences, such as the loss of state-allocated economic development incentives.  See 2008 Ariz. Sess. Laws ch. 152.  Because those provisions were not part of the statute when this suit was brought, they are not before us and we do not address their interaction with federal law.
Footnote 11 See Basic Pilot Extension Act of 2001, §2, 115 Stat. 2407; Basic Pilot Program Extension and Expansion Act of 2003, §2, 117 Stat. 1944; Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009, Div. A, §143, 122 Stat. 3580; Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010, §547, 123 Stat. 2177.
Footnote 12 Justice Breyer shares the Chamber's concern about E-Verify's accuracy.  See post, at 8, 19.  Statistics from Fiscal Year 2010, however, indicate that of the 15,640,167 E-Verify cases submitted, 98.3% were automatically confirmed as work authorized, 0.3% were confirmed as work authorized after contesting and resolving an initial nonconfir-mation--an avenue available to all workers--and 1.43% were not found work authorized.  E-Verify Statistics and Reports, available at http://www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis/menuitem/statistics (as visited May 23, 2011, and available in the Clerk of Court's case file).  As Justice Breyer notes, the initial mismatches (the 0.3%) are frequently due to " 'incorrectly spelled [names] in government databases or on identification documents.' "  Post, at 19.  Such a hazard is of course not unique to E-Verify.  Moreover, Justice Breyer's statistical analysis underlying his conclusion that E-Verify queries, at least initially, wrongly "suggest[] that an individual [i]s not lawfully employable" "18% of the time" needs to be understood for what it is.  Post, at 8.  If E-Verify initially indicated that two individuals were not found work authorized, and later revealed that one of those determinations was incorrect, Justice Breyer would be able to exclaim that the error rate was 50%.
FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 IRCA defines the term "unauthorized alien" to mean, "with respect to the employment of an alien at a particular time, that the alien is not at that time either (A) an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or (B) authorized to be so employed by this chapter or by the Attorney General."  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(3).
Footnote 2 As these cases demonstrate, a contextual analysis of a statutory provision is in no way "untethered" from the statute's text.  Ante, at 15, n. 6.  To the contrary, the majority's reading of the saving clause--with its singular focus on the undefined word "licensing" to the exclusion of all contextual considerations--is "untethered" from the statute as a whole.
Footnote 3 None of the pre-IRCA state laws cited by the majority provided for licensing-related sanctions.  The parties have not identified any pre-IRCA state laws related to licensing that purported to regulate the employment of unauthorized aliens other than those governing agricultural labor contractors.  See ante, at 13-14 (Breyer, J., dissenting).
Footnote 4 By regulation, the Attorney General has conferred on parties charged with violating IRCA the right to obtain discovery from the Federal Government in a hearing before an ALJ.  See 28 CFR §68.18.
Footnote 5 For example, spouses and minor children of persons working in the United States as exchange visitors must apply for employment authorization even though they have lawful immigration status as dependents of the exchange visitor.  See 8 CFR §274a.12(c)(5).
Footnote 6 In its capacity as an employer, a State may be able to access in-formation regarding the work authorization status of its employees through use of E-Verify.
Footnote 7 However, the "federal government's determination creates [only] a rebuttable presumption of the employee's lawful status."  E.g., §23-212(H).
Footnote 8 This reading of the saving clause finds support in IRCA's legislative history.  The House Committee on the Judiciary reported that IRCA was "not intended to preempt or prevent lawful state or local processes concerning the suspension, revocation or refusal to reissue a license to any person who has been found to have violated the sanctions pro-visions in this legislation."  H. R. Rep. No. 99-682, at 58 (emphasis added).  The Committee's reference to "this legislation" is, of course, a reference to IRCA, and only federal officers, ALJs, and courts have authority under IRCA to find that a person has violated the statute's sanctions provisions.


     My reading is also consistent with, though not compelled by, the provisions in IRCA that amended the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (AWPA), 96 Stat. 2583.  As Justice Breyer discusses in detail, see ante, at 13-15 (dissenting opinion), AWPA requires entities to secure a certificate of registration from the Department of Labor before engaging in any "farm labor contracting activity."  AWPA §101, 96 Stat. 2587, 29 U. S. C. §1811(a).  Before 1986, AWPA prohibited farm labor contractors from hiring unauthorized aliens, and it permitted the Department of Labor to institute administrative proceedings to enforce this prohibition.  See §§103(a)(3), 103(b), 106(a), 96 Stat. 2588-2590.  In IRCA, Congress repealed this pro-hibition, IRCA §101(b)(1)(C), but authorized the Secretary of Labor to withdraw a contractor's federal registration certificate upon a finding of an IRCA violation, IRCA §101(b)(1)(B)(iii), 100 Stat. 3372, 29 U. S. C. §1813(a)(6).  Thus, IRCA made AWPA's licensing sanctions turn on a prior federal adjudication of a violation of IRCA.
Footnote 9 Because I believe that the Arizona Act does not fall within IRCA's saving clause for this reason, I have no reason to consider the separate question whether the Act's definition of "license" sweeps too broadly.  Compare ante, at 9-11, with ante, at 1-2, 11-12 (Breyer, J., dissenting).
Footnote 10 In Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, Inc., 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 10), we held that the Federal Government's judgment regarding the cost effectiveness of seatbelt options did not reveal an intent "to forbid common-law tort suits in which a judge or jury might reach a different conclusion."  The obvious distinction between that case and this one is that Congress' decision to keep use of E-Verify voluntary bears directly on the costs to the Federal Government itself.
Footnote 11 Notably, the Government's brief does not state that the E-Verify system could accommodate the increased use that would result if all 50 States enacted similar laws; it limits its statement to "the Arizona statute and existing similar laws."  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 34 (emphasis added).





United States Supreme Court
CARACHURI-ROSENDO v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2010)
No. 09-60
Argued: March 31, 2010    Decided: June 14, 2010


Petitioner, a lawful permanent resident of the United States, faced deportation after committing two misdemeanor drug offenses in Texas.  For the first, possession of a small amount of marijuana, he received 20 days in jail.  For the second, possession without a prescription of one antianxiety tablet, he received 10 days.  Texas law, like federal law, authorized a sentencing enhancement if the State proved that petitioner had been previously convicted of a similar offense, but Texas did not seek such an enhancement here.  After the second conviction, the Federal Government initiated removal proceedings.  Petitioner conceded that he was removable, but claimed that he was eligible for discretionary cancellation of removal under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) because he had not been convicted of any "aggravated felony," 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3).  Section 1101(a)(43)(B) defines that term to include, inter alia, "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance ... including a drug trafficking crime" as defined in 18 U. S. C. §924(c), which, in turn, defines a "drug trafficking crime" as a "felony punishable under," inter alia, "the Controlled Substances Act (21 U. S. C. 801 et seq.)."  A felony is a crime for which the "maximum term of imprisonment authorized" is "more than one year."  §3559(a).  Simple possession offenses are ordinarily misdemeanors punishable with shorter sentences, but a conviction "after a prior conviction under this subchapter [or] the law of any State ... has become final"--a "recidivist" simple possession offense--is "punishable" as a "felony" under §924(c)(2) and subject to a 2-year sentence.  Only this "recidivist" simple possession category might be an "aggravated felony" under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).  A prosecutor must charge the existence of the prior conviction.  See 21 U. S. C. §851(a)(1).  Notice and an opportunity to challenge its validity, §§851(b)-(c), are mandatory prerequisites to obtaining a punishment based on the fact of the prior conviction and necessary prerequisites to "authorize" a felony punishment, 18 U. S. C. §3559(a), for the simple possession offense at issue.


          Here, the Immigration Judge held that petitioner's second simple possession conviction was an "aggravated felony" that made him ineligible for cancellation of removal.  The Board of Immigration Appeals and Fifth Circuit affirmed.  Relying on the holding in Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 56--that to be an "aggravated felony" for immigration law purposes, a state drug conviction must be punishable as a felony under federal law--the court used a "hypothetical approach," concluding that because petitioner's "conduct" could have been prosecuted as a recidivist simple possession under state law, it could have also been punished as a felony under federal law.
Held: Second or subsequent simple possession offenses are not aggravated felonies under §1101(a)(43) when, as in this case, the state conviction is not based on the fact of a prior conviction.  Pp. 9-19.
     (a) Considering the disputed provisions' terms and their "commonsense conception," Lopez, 549 U. S., at 53, it would be counterintuitive and "unorthodox" to apply an "aggravated felony" or "illicit trafficking" label to petitioner's recidivist possession, see id., at 54.  The same is true for his penalty.  One does not usually think of a 10-day sentence for unauthorized possession of one prescription pill as an "aggravated felony."  This Court must be very wary in this case because the Government seeks a result that "the English language tells [the Court] not to expect."  Ibid.  Pp. 9-11.


     (b) The Government's position--that "conduct punishable as a felony" should be treated as the equivalent of a felony conviction when the underlying conduct could have been a felony under federal law--is unpersuasive.  First, it ignores the INA's text, which limits the Attorney General's cancellation power only when, inter alia, a noncitizen "has ... been convicted of a[n] aggravated felony."  8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3).  Thus, the conviction itself is the starting place, not what might have or could have been charged.  Under the Controlled Substances Act, simple possession offenses carry only a 1-year sentence unless a prosecutor elects to charge the defendant as a recidivist and the defendant receives notice and an opportunity to defend against that charge.  Here, petitioner's record of conviction contains no finding of the fact of his prior drug offense.  An immigration court cannot, ex post, enhance the state offense of record just because facts known to it would have authorized a greater penalty.  The Government contends that had petitioner been prosecuted in federal court under identical circumstances, he would have committed an "aggravated felony" for immigration law purposes.  But his circumstances were not identical to the Government's hypothesis.  And the Government's approach cannot be reconciled with 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3), which requires an "aggravated felony" conviction--not that the noncitizen merely could have been convicted of a felony but was not.  Second, the Government's position fails to effectuate 21 U. S. C. §851's mandatory notice and process requirements, which have great practical significance with respect to the conviction itself and are integral to the structure and design of federal drug laws.  They authorize prosecutors to exercise discretion when electing whether to pursue a recidivist enhancement.  So do many state criminal codes, including Texas'.  Permitting an immigration judge to apply his own recidivist enhancement after the fact would denigrate state prosecutors' independent judgment to execute such laws.  Third, the Fifth Circuit misread Lopez.  This Court never used a "hypothetical approach" in its analysis.  By focusing on facts known to the immigration court that could have but did not serve as the basis for the state conviction and punishment, the Circuit's approach introduces a level of conjecture that has no basis in Lopez.  Fourth, the Government's argument is inconsistent with common practice in the federal courts, for it is quite unlikely that petitioner's conduct would have been punished as a felony in federal court.  Finally, as the Court noted in Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 11, n. 8, ambiguities in criminal statutes referenced in immigration laws should be construed in the noncitizen's favor.  Notably, here, the question whether petitioner has committed an "aggravated felony" is relevant to the type of relief he may obtain from a removal order, but not to whether he is in fact removable.  Thus, any relief he may obtain still depends on the Attorney General's discretion.  Pp. 11-18.
570 F. 3d 263, reversed.
     Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in the judgment.


JOSE ANGEL CARACHURI-ROSENDO, PETITIONER v.ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[June 14, 2010]

     Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court.

     Petitioner Jose Angel Carachuri-Rosendo, a lawful permanent resident who has lived in the United States since he was five years old, faced deportation under federal law after he committed two misdemeanor drug possession offenses in Texas.  For the first, possession of less than two ounces of marijuana, he received 20 days in jail.  For the second, possession without a prescription of one tablet of a common antianxiety medication, he received 10 days in jail.  After this second offense, the Federal Government initiated removal proceedings against him.  He conceded that he was removable, but claimed he was eligible for discretionary relief from removal under 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a).


     To decide whether Carachuri-Rosendo is eligible to seek cancellation of removal or waiver of inadmissibility under §1229b(a), we must decide whether he has been convicted of an "aggravated felony," §1229b(a)(3), a category of crimes singled out for the harshest deportation consequences.  The Court of Appeals held that a simple drug possession offense, committed after the conviction for a first possession offense became final, is always an aggravated felony.  We now reverse and hold that second or subsequent simple possession offenses are not aggravated felonies under §1101(a)(43) when, as in this case, the state conviction is not based on the fact of a prior conviction.
I

     Under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 163, as amended, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., a lawful permanent resident subject to removal from the United States may apply for discretionary cancellation of removal if, inter alia, he "has not been convicted of any aggravated felony," §1229b(a)(3).  The statutory definition of the term "aggravated felony" includes a list of numerous federal offenses,1 one of which is "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance . . . including a drug trafficking crime (as defined in section 924(c) of title 18)."  §1101(a)(43)(B).  Section 924(c)(2), in turn, defines a "drug trafficking crime" to mean "any felony punishable under," inter alia, "the Controlled Substances Act (21 U. S. C. 801 et seq.)."  A felony is a crime for which the "maximum term of imprisonment authorized" is "more than one year."  18 U. S. C. §3559(a).2
     The maze of statutory cross-references continues.  Section 404 of the Controlled Substances Act criminalizes simple possession offenses, the type of offense at issue in this case.  But it prescribes punishment for both misdemeanor and felony offenses.  Except for simple possession of crack cocaine or flunitrazepam, a first-time simple possession offense is a federal misdemeanor; the maximum term authorized for such a conviction is less than one year.  21 U. S. C. §844(a).  However, a conviction for a simple possession offense "after a prior conviction under this subchapter [or] under the law of any State . . . has become final"--what we will call recidivist simple possession3--may be punished as a felony, with a prison sentence of up to two years.  Ibid.4  Thus, except for simple possession offenses involving isolated categories of drugs not presently at issue, only recidivist simple possession offenses are "punishable" as a federal "felony" under the Controlled Substances Act, 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2).  And thus only a conviction within this particular category of simple possession offenses might, conceivably, be an "aggravated felony" under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43).


     For a subsequent simple possession offense to be eligible for an enhanced punishment, i.e., to be punishable as a felony, the Controlled Substances Act requires that a prosecutor charge the existence of the prior simple possession conviction before trial, or before a guilty plea.  See 21 U. S. C. §851(a)(1).5  Notice, plus an opportunity to challenge the validity of the prior conviction used to enhance the current conviction, §§851(b)-(c), are mandatory prerequisites to obtaining a punishment based on the fact of a prior conviction.6  And they are also necessary prerequisites under federal law to "authorize" a felony punishment, 18 U. S. C. §3559(a), for the type of simple possession offense at issue in this case.


     Neither the definition of an "illicit trafficking" offense under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B) nor that of a "drug trafficking crime" under 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) describes or references any state offenses.  The "aggravated felony" definition does explain that the term applies "to an offense described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law."  §1101(a)(43).  But in Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 56 (2006), we determined that, in order to be an "aggravated felony" for immigration law purposes, a state drug conviction must be punishable as a felony under federal law.  We held that "a state offense constitutes a 'felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act' only if it proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under that federal law."  Id., at 60.  Despite the fact that the Lopez petitioner had been punished as a felon under state law--and, indeed, received a 5-year sentence--the conduct of his offense was not punishable as a felony under federal law, and this prevented the state conviction from qualifying as an aggravated felony for immigration law purposes. Id., at 55 ("Unless a state offense is punishable as a federal felony it does not count").


     In the case before us, the Government argues that Carachuri-Rosendo, despite having received only a 10-day sentence for his Texas misdemeanor simple possession offense, nevertheless has been "convicted" of an "aggravated felony" within the meaning of the INA.  This is so, the Government contends, because had Carachuri-Rosendo been prosecuted in federal court instead of state court, he could have been prosecuted as a felon and received a 2-year sentence based on the fact of his prior simple possession offense.  Our holding in Lopez teaches that, for a state conviction to qualify as an "aggravated felony" under the INA, it is necessary for the underlying conduct to be punishable as a federal felony.  Id., at 60.  We now must determine whether the mere possibility, no matter how remote, that a 2-year sentence might have been imposed in a federal trial is a sufficient basis for concluding that a state misdemeanant who was not charged as a recidivist has been "convicted" of an "aggravated felony" within the meaning of §1229b(a)(3).
II

     Carachuri-Rosendo was born in Mexico in 1978.  He came to the United States with his parents in 1983 and has been a lawful permanent resident of Texas ever since.  His common-law wife and four children are American citizens, as are his mother and two sisters.
     Like so many in this country, Carachuri-Rosendo has gotten into some trouble with our drug laws.  In 2004, he pleaded guilty to possessing less than two ounces of marijuana, a Class B misdemeanor, and was sentenced to confinement for 20 days by a Texas court.  See App. 19a-22a; Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §§481.121(a) and (b)(1) (West 2003).  In 2005, he pleaded nolo contendere to possessing less than 28 grams--one tablet--of alprazolam (known commercially as Xanax) without a prescription, a Class A misdemeanor.  See App. 31a-34a; Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §§481.117(a) and (b).  Although Texas law, like federal law, authorized a sentencing enhancement if the prosecutor proved that Carachuri-Rosendo had been previously convicted of an offense of a similar class, the State did not elect to seek an enhancement based on his criminal history.  App. 32a.


     In 2006, on the basis of Carachuri-Rosendo's second possession offense, the Federal Government initiated removal proceedings against him.  Appearing pro se before the Immigration Judge, Carachuri-Rosendo did not dispute that his conviction for possessing one tablet of Xanax without a prescription made him removable,7 but he applied for a discretionary cancellation of removal pursuant to 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a).  Under that statutory provision, the Attorney General may cancel an order of removal or an order of inadmissibility so long as, inter alia, the noncitizen "has not been convicted of a[n] aggravated felony."  §1229b(a)(3).  The Immigration Judge held that petitioner's second simple possession conviction was an "aggravated felony" that made him ineligible for cancellation of removal.


     The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) followed Circuit precedent and affirmed that decision, but it disagreed with the Immigration Judge's legal analysis.  In its en banc opinion, the BIA ruled that in cases arising in Circuits in which the question had not yet been decided, the BIA would not treat a second or successive misdemeanor conviction as an aggravated felony unless the conviction contained a finding that the offender was a recidivist.  In re Carachuri-Rosendo, 24 I. & N. Dec. 382, 387, 391 (2007).


     The BIA explained that the statutory question is complicated by the fact that " 'recidivist possession' " is not a "discrete offense under Federal law."  Id., at 388.  While most federal offenses are defined by elements that must be proved to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt, recidivist possession is an "amalgam of elements, substantive sentencing factors, and procedural safeguards."  Id., at 389.  Section 844(a) defines simple possession by reference to statutory elements, but "facts leading to recidivist felony punishment, such as the existence of a prior conviction, do not qualify as 'elements' in the traditional sense."  Ibid.


     The BIA observed, however, that "21 U. S. C. §851 precludes a Federal judge from enhancing a drug offender's sentence on the basis of recidivism absent compliance with a number of safeguards that, among other things, serve to protect the right of the accused to notice and an opportunity to be heard as to the propriety of an increased punishment based on prior convictions."  Ibid.  Therefore, these requirements "are part and parcel of what it means for a crime to be a 'recidivist' offense."  Id., at 391.  "[U]nless the State successfully sought to impose punishment for a recidivist drug conviction," the BIA concluded, a state simple possession "conviction cannot 'proscribe conduct punishable as' recidivist possession" under federal law.  Ibid.


     On review, the Court of Appeals affirmed the BIA's decision in Carachuri-Rosendo's case, reading our decision in Lopez as dictating its outcome.  "[I]f the conduct proscribed by the state offense could have been prosecuted as a felony" under the Controlled Substances Act, the court reasoned, then the defendant's conviction qualifies as an aggravated felony.  570 F. 3d 263, 267 (CA5 2009) (citing Lopez, 549 U. S., at 60).  The court deemed its analysis "the hypothetical approach," a term it derived from its understanding of our method of analysis in Lopez.  570 F. 3d, at 266, and n. 3; see also United States v. Pacheco-Diaz, 513 F. 3d 776, 779 (CA7 2008) (per curiam) (employing the "hypothetical-federal-felony approach").  Under this approach, as the Court of Appeals understood it, courts "g[o] beyond the state statute's elements to look at the hypothetical conduct a state statute proscribes."  570 F. 3d, at 266, n. 3.  Accordingly, any "conduct" that "hypothetically" "could have been punished as a felony" "had [it] been prosecuted in federal court" is an "aggravated felony" for federal immigration law purposes.  Id., at 265.  In applying this hypothetical approach, the Court of Appeals did not discuss the §851 procedural requirements.  Instead, it concluded that because Carachuri-Rosendo's "conduct" could have been prosecuted as simple possession with a recidivist enhancement under state law--even though it was not--it could have also been punished as a felony under federal law.  Thus, in the Court of Appeals' view, his conviction for simple possession under state law, without a recidivist enhancement, was an "aggravated felony" for immigration law purposes.8


     We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict among the Courts of Appeals over whether subsequent simple possession offenses are aggravated felonies.9  558 U. S. ____ (2009).
III

     When interpreting the statutory provisions under dispute, we begin by looking at the terms of the provisions and the "commonsense conception" of those terms.  Lopez, 549 U. S., at 53.  Carachuri-Rosendo is ineligible for cancellation of removal only if he was "convicted of a[n] aggravated felony," 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a), which, in this case, could only be a conviction for "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance . ... including a drug trafficking crime,"  §1101(a)(43)(B).
     A recidivist possession offense such as Carachuri-Rosendo's does not fit easily into the "everyday understanding" of those terms, Lopez, 549 U. S., at 53.  This type of petty simple possession offense is not typically thought of as an "aggravated felony" or as "illicit trafficking."  We explained in Lopez that "ordinarily 'trafficking' means some sort of commercial dealing."  Id., at 53-54 (citing Black's Law Dictionary 1534 (8th ed. 2004)).  And just as in Lopez, "[c]ommerce . . . was no part of" Carachuri-Rosendo's possessing a single tablet of Xanax, "and certainly it is no element of simple possession."  549 U. S., at 54.  As an initial matter, then, we observe that a reading of this statutory scheme that would apply an "aggravated" or "trafficking" label to any simple possession offense is, to say the least, counterintuitive and "unorthodox," ibid.


     The same is true for the type of penalty at issue.  We do not usually think of a 10-day sentence for the unauthorized possession of a trivial amount of a prescription drug as an "aggravated felony."  A "felony," we have come to understand, is a "serious crime usu[ally] punishable by imprisonment for more than one year or by death." Black's Law Dictionary 694 (9th ed. 2009) (hereinafter Black's).  An "aggravated" offense is one "made worse or more serious by circumstances such as violence, the presence of a deadly weapon, or the intent to commit another crime."  Id., at 75.  The term "aggravated felony" is unique to Title 8, which covers immigration matters; it is not a term used elsewhere within the United States Code.  Our statutory criminal law classifies the most insignificant of federal felonies--"Class E" felonies--as carrying a sentence of "less than five years but more than one year."  18 U. S. C. §3559(a)(5).  While it is true that a defendant's criminal history might be seen to make an offense "worse" by virtue thereof, Black's 75, it is nevertheless unorthodox to classify this type of petty simple possession recidivism as an "aggravated felony."


     Of course, as Justice Souter observed in his opinion for the Court in Lopez, Congress, like "Humpty Dumpty," has the power to give words unorthodox meanings.  549 U. S., at 54.  But in this case the Government argues for a result that "the English language tells us not to expect," so we must be "very wary of the Government's position."  Ibid.  Because the English language tells us that most aggravated felonies are punishable by sentences far longer than 10 days, and that mere possession of one tablet of Xanax does not constitute "trafficking," Lopez instructs us to be doubly wary of the Government's position in this case.10
IV

     The Government's position, like the Court of Appeals' "hypothetical approach," would treat all "conduct punishable as a felony" as the equivalent of a "conviction" of a felony whenever, hypothetically speaking, the underlying conduct could have received felony treatment under federal law.  We find this reasoning--and the "hypothetical approach" itself--unpersuasive for the following reasons.
     First, and most fundamentally, the Government's position ignores the text of the INA, which limits the Attorney General's cancellation power only when, inter alia, a noncitizen "has . . . been convicted of a[n] aggravated felony."  8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3) (emphasis added).  The text thus indicates that we are to look to the conviction itself as our starting place, not to what might have or could have been charged.  And to be convicted of an aggravated felony punishable as such under the Controlled Substances Act, the "maximum term of imprisonment authorized" must be "more than one year," 18 U. S. C. §3559(a)(5).  Congress, recall, chose to authorize only a 1-year sentence for nearly all simple possession offenses, but it created a narrow exception for those cases in which a prosecutor elects to charge the defendant as a recidivist and the defendant receives notice and an opportunity to defend against that charge.  See 21 U. S. C. §851; Part I, supra.


     Indisputably, Carachuri-Rosendo's record of conviction contains no finding of the fact of his prior drug offense.  Carachuri-Rosendo argues that even such a finding would be insufficient, and that a prosecutorial charge of recidivism and an opportunity to defend against that charge also would be required before he could be deemed "convicted" of a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act.  In the absence of any finding of recidivism, we need not, and do not, decide whether these additional procedures would be necessary.  Although a federal immigration court may have the power to make a recidivist finding in the first instance, see, e.g., Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224, 247 (1998), it cannot, ex post, enhance the state offense of record just because facts known to it would have authorized a greater penalty under either state or federal law.11  Carachuri-Rosendo was not actually "convicted," §1229b(a)(3), of a drug possession offense committed "after a prior conviction . . . has become final," §844(a), and no subsequent development can undo that history.12


     The Government contends that if Carachuri-Rosendo had been prosecuted in federal court for simple possession under 21 U. S. C. §844(a) under identical circumstances, he would have committed an "aggravated felony" for immigration law purposes.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 36-37.  This is so, the Government suggests, because the only statutory text that matters is the word "punishable" in 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2): Whatever conduct might be "punishable" as a felony, regardless of whether it actually is so punished or not, is a felony for immigration law purposes.  But for the reasons just stated, the circumstances of Carachuri-Rosendo's prosecution were not identical to those hypothesized by the Government.  And the Government's abstracted approach to §924(c)(2) cannot be reconciled with the more concrete guidance of 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3), which limits the Attorney General's cancellation authority only when the noncitizen has actually been "convicted of a[n] aggravated felony"--not when he merely could have been convicted of a felony but was not.


     Second, and relatedly, the Government's position fails to give effect to the mandatory notice and process requirements contained in 21 U. S. C. §851.  For federal law purposes, a simple possession offense is not "punishable" as a felony unless a federal prosecutor first elects to charge a defendant as a recidivist in the criminal information.  The statute, as described in Part I, supra, at 3-4, speaks in mandatory terms, permitting "[n]o person" to be subject to a recidivist enhancement--and therefore, in this case, a felony sentence--"unless" he has been given notice of the Government's intent to prove the fact of a prior conviction.  Federal law also gives the defendant an opportunity to challenge the fact of the prior conviction itself.  §§851(b)-(c).  The Government would dismiss these procedures as meaningless, so long as they may be satisfied during the immigration proceeding.


     But these procedural requirements have great practical significance with respect to the conviction itself and are integral to the structure and design of our drug laws.  They authorize prosecutors to exercise discretion when electing whether to pursue a recidivist enhancement.  See United States v. Dodson, 288 F. 3d 153, 159 (CA5 2002) ("Whereas the prior version of [§851(a)] made enhancements for prior offenses mandatory, the new statutory scheme gave prosecutors discretion whether to seek enhancements based on prior convictions").  Because the procedures are prerequisites to an enhanced sentence, §851 allows federal prosecutors to choose whether to seek a conviction that is "punishable" as a felony under §844(a).  Underscoring the significance of the §851 procedures, the United States Attorney's Manual places decisions with respect to seeking recidivist enhancements on par with the filing of a criminal charge against a defendant.  See Dept. of Justice, United States Attorneys' Manual §9-27.300(B) comment. (1997), online at http://www.justice.gov/usao/eousa/foia_reading_room/ usam/title9/27mcrm.htm#9-27.300 (as visited June 3, 2010, and available in Clerk of Court's case file). ("Every prosecutor should regard the filing of an information under 21 U. S. C. §851 . . . as equivalent to the filing of charges").


     Many state criminal codes, like the federal scheme, afford similar deference to prosecutorial discretion when prescribing recidivist enhancements.  Texas is one such State.  See, e.g., Tex. Penal Code Ann. §§12.42, 12.43 (West 2003) (recidivist enhancement is available "[i]f it is shown on the trial" that defendant was previously convicted of identified categories of felonies and misdemeanors).  And, in this case, the prosecutor specifically elected to "[a]bandon" a recidivist enhancement under state law.  App. 32a (reproducing state judgment).  Were we to permit a federal immigration judge to apply his own recidivist enhancement after the fact so as to make the noncitizen's offense "punishable" as a felony for immigration law purposes, we would denigrate the independent judgment of state prosecutors to execute the laws of those sovereigns.


     Third, the Court of Appeals' hypothetical felony approach is based on a misreading of our decision in Lopez.  We never used the term "hypothetical" to describe our analysis in that case.  We did look to the "proscribe[d] conduct" of a state offense to determine whether it is "punishable as a felony under that federal law."  549 U. S., at 60.  But the "hypothetical approach" employed by the Court of Appeals introduces a level of conjecture at the outset of this inquiry that has no basis in Lopez.  It ignores both the conviction (the relevant statutory hook), and the conduct actually punished by the state offense.  Instead, it focuses on facts known to the immigration court that could have but did not serve as the basis for the state conviction and punishment.  As the Sixth Circuit has explained, this approach is really a " 'hypothetical to a hypothetical.' "  Rashid v. Mukasey, 531 F. 3d 438, 445 (2008).  Not only does the Government wish us to consider a fictional federal felony--whether the crime for which Carachuri-Rosendo was actually convicted would be a felony under the Controlled Substances Act--but the Government also wants us to consider facts not at issue in the crime of conviction (i.e., the existence of a prior conviction) to determine whether Carachuri-Rosendo could have been charged with a federal felony.  This methodology is far removed from the more focused, categorical inquiry employed in Lopez.


     Fourth, it seems clear that the Government's argument is inconsistent with common practice in the federal courts.  It is quite unlikely that the "conduct" that gave rise to Carachuri-Rosendo's conviction would have been punished as a felony in federal court.  Under the United States Sentencing Guidelines, Carachuri-Rosendo's recommended sentence, based on the type of controlled substance at issue, would not have exceeded one year and very likely would have been less than 6 months.  See United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual §2D2.1(a)(3) (Nov. 2009) (base offense level of 4).  And as was true in Lopez, the Government has provided us with no empirical data suggesting that "even a single eager Assistant United States Attorney" has ever sought to prosecute a comparable federal defendant as a felon.  549 U. S., at 57-58.  The Government's "hypothetical" approach to this case is therefore misleading as well as speculative, in that Carachuri-Rosendo's federal-court counterpart would not, in actuality, have faced any felony charge.
     Finally, as we noted in Leocal v. Ashcroft, 543 U. S. 1, 11, n. 8 (2004), ambiguities in criminal statutes referenced in immigration laws should be construed in the noncitizen's favor.  And here the critical language appears in a criminal statute, 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2).  


     We note that whether a noncitizen has committed an "aggravated felony" is relevant, inter alia, to the type of relief he may obtain from a removal order, but not to whether he is in fact removable.  In other words, to the extent that our rejection of the Government's broad understanding of the scope of "aggravated felony" may have any practical effect on policing our Nation's borders, it is a limited one.  Carachuri-Rosendo, and others in his position, may now seek cancellation of removal and thereby avoid the harsh consequence of mandatory removal.  But he will not avoid the fact that his conviction makes him, in the first instance, removable.  Any relief he may obtain depends upon the discretion of the Attorney General.
*  *  *

     In sum, the Government is correct that to qualify as an "aggravated felony" under the INA, the conduct prohibited by state law must be punishable as a felony under federal law.  See Lopez, 549 U. S., at 60.  But as the text and structure of the relevant statutory provisions demonstrate, the defendant must also have been actually convicted of a crime that is itself punishable as a felony under federal law.  The mere possibility that the defendant's conduct, coupled with facts outside of the record of conviction, could have authorized a felony conviction under federal law is insufficient to satisfy the statutory command that a noncitizen be "convicted of a[n] aggravated felony" before he loses the opportunity to seek cancellation of removal.  8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3).  The Court of Appeals, as well as the Government, made the logical error of assuming that a necessary component of an aggravated felony is also sufficient to satisfy its statutory definition.
V

     We hold that when a defendant has been convicted of a simple possession offense that has not been enhanced based on the fact of a prior conviction, he has not been "convicted" under §1229b(a)(3) of a "felony punishable" as such "under the Controlled Substances Act," 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2).  The prosecutor in Carachuri-Rosendo's case declined to charge him as a recidivist.  He has, therefore, not been convicted of a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act.
     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.


JOSE ANGEL CARACHURI-ROSENDO, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[June 14, 2010]

     Justice Scalia, concurring in the judgment.

     I agree with the Court that Carachuri-Rosendo's 2005 conviction for simple possession of a tablet of Xanax in violation of Texas law is not a conviction for an "aggravated felony" under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B).  But my reasoning is more straightforward than the Court's, and so I concur only in the judgment.


     Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Attorney General may cancel the removal of an alien from the United States provided the alien "has not been convicted of any aggravated felony."  §1229b(a)(3).  There is no statutory definition of "convicted," but a "conviction" is defined to mean a "formal judgment of guilt of the alien entered by a court."  §1101(a)(48)(A).  The term "aggravated felony" includes, among many other offenses, "a drug trafficking crime (as defined in [18 U. S. C. §924(c)])."  §1101(a)(43)(B).  A "drug trafficking crime" is in turn defined as "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act."  18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2).


     It could be concluded from the provisions discussed above that only a federal conviction for a felony offense under the Controlled Substances Act would qualify under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B).  But the penultimate sentence in §1101(a)(43) provides that the statutory definition of "aggravated felony" "applies to an offense described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law."  This language, we have said, confirms that "a state offense whose elements include the elements of a felony punishable under the [Controlled Substances Act] is an aggravated felony."  Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 57 (2006).


     The conceptual problem in the present case is that the only crime defined by 21 U. S. C. §844(a) of the Controlled Substances Act, simple possession of prohibited drugs, is a misdemeanor.  That misdemeanor becomes a "felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act" only because the sentencing factor of recidivism authorizes additional punishment beyond one year, the criterion for a felony.  We held in Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224 (1998), that recidivism can constitutionally be made a sentencing factor rather than an element of the crime, despite the fact that it is used to increase the allowable sentence.  And we said in Lopez that a "state possession crim[e] that correspond[s] to" the "felony violatio[n]" of "recidivist possession" in §844(a) "clearly fall[s] within the definitions used by Congress ... in §1101(a)(43)(B) and ... §924(c)(2)."  549 U. S., at 55, n. 6.


     But to say all that is not to say that an alien has been "convicted of" an aggravated felony (which is what §1229b(a)(3) requires) when he has been convicted of nothing more than a second state misdemeanor violation, the punishment for which could, because of recidivism, be extended beyond one year.  Just because, by reason of Almendarez-Torres, the federal misdemeanor offense has been raised to a felony offense without changing its elements, solely by increasing its penalty pursuant to a recidivist "sentencing factor"; it does not follow that when the question is asked whether someone has been "convicted of" a state offense that "corresponds" to the federal misdemeanor-become-felony, the answer can be sought in sentencing factors.  A defendant is not "convicted" of sentencing factors, but only of the elements of the crime charged in the indictment.  In other words, a misdemeanor offense with a sentencing factor that raises its punishment to the felony level qualifies for purposes of establishing the elements of a "felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act"; but does not qualify for purposes of determining what elements the alien has been "convicted of."     Here, Carachuri-Rosendo was only "convicted of" the crime of knowing possession of a controlled substance without a valid prescription, a Class A misdemeanor under Texas law.  Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §§481.117(a) and (b) (West Supp. 2009).  Since the elements of that crime did not include recidivism, the crime of his conviction did not "correspond" to the Controlled Substances Act felony of possession-plus-recidivism under 21 U. S. C. §844(a).


     For these reasons, I concur in the judgment.


JOSE ANGEL CARACHURI-ROSENDO, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit
[June 14, 2010]

     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.

     A plain reading of 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2) identifies two requirements that must be satisfied for Carachuri-Rosendo's state conviction to qualify as a " 'drug trafficking crime' " that renders him ineligible for cancellation of removal:** "First, the offense must be a felony; second, the offense must be capable of punishment under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA)."  Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U. S. 47, 61 (2006) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Carachuri-Rosendo's offense of simple possession was "punishable under the [CSA]," §924(c)(2), and thus satisfied the second requirement, but his crime of conviction in state court was only a misdemeanor.  Accordingly, that offense does not bar him from obtaining cancellation of removal.


     The Fifth Circuit understandably felt constrained by this Court's decision in Lopez to rule otherwise.  In Lopez, this Court held that "a state offense constitutes a 'felony punishable under the [CSA]' only if it proscribes conduct punishable as a felony under that federal law."  Id., at 60 (emphasis added).  Though Lopez addressed a felony conviction under state law that did not correlate to a felony under the CSA, the Court's rule preordained the result in this case:
"[T]he Court admits that its reading will subject an alien defendant convicted of a state misdemeanor to deportation if his conduct was punishable as a felony under the CSA.  Accordingly, even if never convicted of an actual felony, an alien defendant becomes eligible for deportation based on a hypothetical federal prosecution."  Id., at 67 (Thomas, J., dissenting).

     Today, the Court engages in jurisprudential gymnastics to avoid Lopez.  I will not contort the law to fit the case.  Lopez was wrongly decided.  But because a proper reading of the statutory text, see id., at 60-63, supports the result the Court reaches today, I concur in the judgment.

FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 The term "aggravated felony" "applies to an offense ... whether in violation of Federal or State law" (or, in certain circumstances, "the law of a foreign country").  8 U. S. C. § 1101(a)(43).
Footnote 2 The Controlled Substances Act itself defines the term "felony" as "any Federal or State offense classified by applicable Federal or State law as a felony."  21 U. S. C. §802(13).  The Government concedes that the classification of felonies under 18 U. S. C. §3559(a) controls in this case.  Brief for Respondent 4.
Footnote 3 Although §844(a) does not expressly define a separate offense of "recidivist simple possession," the fact of a prior conviction must nonetheless be found before a defendant is subject to a felony sentence.  True, the statutory scheme comports with Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224, 247 (1998), in which we explained that the Constitution does not require treating recidivism as an element of the offense.  In other words, Congress has permissibly set out a criminal offense for simple possession whereby a recidivist finding by the judge, by a preponderance of the evidence, authorizes a punishment that exceeds the statutory maximum penalty for a simple possession offense.  But the fact of a prior conviction must still be found--if only by a judge and if only by a preponderance of the evidence--before a defendant is subject to felony punishment.  For present purposes, we therefore view §844(a)'s felony simple possession provision as separate and distinct from the misdemeanor simple possession offense that section also prescribes.
Footnote 4 The statute provides in relevant part: "Any person who violates this subsection may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 1 year ... except that if he commits such offense after a prior conviction ... he shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment for not less than 15 days but not more than 2 years ... ."  21 U. S. C. §844(a).
Footnote 5 This subsection provides: "No person who stands convicted of an offense under this part shall be sentenced to increased punishment by reason of one or more prior convictions, unless before trial, or before entry of a plea of guilty, the United States attorney files an information with the court (and serves a copy of such information on the person or counsel for the person) stating in writing the previous convictions to be relied upon."  §851(a)(1).
Footnote 6 We have previously recognized the mandatory nature of these requirements, as have the courts of appeals.  See United States v. LaBonte, 520 U. S. 751, 754, n. 1 (1997) ("We note that imposition of an enhanced penalty [for recidivism] is not automatic. . . . If the Government does not file such notice [under 21 U. S. C. §851(a)(1)] . . . the lower sentencing range will be applied even though the defendant may otherwise be eligible for the increased penalty"); see also, e.g., United States v. Beasley, 495 F. 3d 142, 148 (CA4 2007); United States v. Ceballos, 302 F. 3d 679, 690-692 (CA7 2002); United States v. Dodson, 288 F. 3d 153, 159 (CA5 2002); United States v. Mooring, 287 F. 3d 725, 727-728 (CA8 2002).  Although §851's procedural safeguards are not constitutionally compelled, see Almendarez-Torres, 523 U. S., at 247, they are nevertheless a mandatory feature of the Controlled Substances Act and a prerequisite to securing a felony conviction under §844(a) for a successive simple possession offense.
Footnote 7 But for trivial marijuana possession offenses (such as Carachuri-Rosendo's 2004 state offense), virtually all drug offenses are grounds for removal under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i).
Footnote 8 Since the Court of Appeals issued its decision in this case, Carachuri-Rosendo has been removed.  Brief for Respondent 10-11.  Neither party, however, has suggested that this case is now moot.  If Carachuri-Rosendo was not convicted of an "aggravated felony," and if he continues to satisfy the requirements of 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a), he may still seek cancellation of removal even after having been removed.  See §1229b(a) ("The Attorney General may cancel removal in the case of an alien who is inadmissible or deportable from the United States if the alien" meets several criteria).
Footnote 9 Compare 570 F. 3d 263 (CA5 2009) (holding state conviction for simple possession after prior conviction for simple possession is a felony under the Controlled Substances Act and thus an aggravated felony), and Fernandez v. Mukasey, 544 F. 3d 862 (CA7 2008) (same), with Berhe v. Gonzales, 464 F. 3d 74 (CA1 2006) (taking contrary view), Alsol v. Mukasey, 548 F. 3d 207 (CA2 2008) (same), Gerbier v. Holmes, 280 F. 3d 297 (CA3 2002) (same), and Rashid v. Mukasey, 531 F. 3d 438 (CA6 2008) (same).
Footnote 10 The Court stated in Lopez that "recidivist possession, see 21 U. S. C. §844(a), clearly fall[s] within the definitions used by Congress in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B) and 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(2), regardless of whether these federal possession felonies or their state counterparts constitute 'illicit trafficking in a controlled substance' or 'drug trafficking' as those terms are used in ordinary speech."  549 U. S., at 55, n. 6.  Our decision today is not in conflict with this footnote; it is still true that recidivist simple possession offenses charged and prosecuted as such "clearly fall" within the definition of an aggravated felony.  What we had no occasion to decide in Lopez, and what we now address, is what it means to be convicted of an aggravated felony.  Lopez teaches us that it is necessary that the conduct punished under state law correspond to a felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act to be an aggravated felony under §1101(a)(43)(B).  But it does not instruct as to whether the mere possibility that conduct could be--but is not--charged as an offense punishable as a felony under federal law is sufficient.
Footnote 11 Our decision last Term in Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. ___ (2009), also relied upon by the Government, is not to the contrary.  In that case, we rejected the so-called categorical approach employed in cases like United States v. Rodriquez, 553 U. S. 377 (2008), when assessing whether, under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(M)(i), a noncitizen has committed "an offense that . . . involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the . . . victims exceeds $10,000."  Our analysis was tailored to the "circumstance-specific" language contained in that particular subsection of the aggravated felony definition.  Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  And we specifically distinguished the "generic" categories of aggravated felonies for which a categorical approach might be appropriate--including the "illicit trafficking" provision--from the "circumstance-specific" offense at hand.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6-7, 8).  Moreover, unlike the instant case, there was no debate in Nijhawan over whether the petitioner actually had been "convicted" of fraud; we only considered how to calculate the amount of loss once a conviction for a particular category of aggravated felony has occurred.
Footnote 12 Linking our inquiry to the record of conviction comports with how we have categorized convictions for state offenses within the definition of generic federal criminal sanctions under the Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA), 18 U. S. C. §924(e).  The United States urges that our decision in Rodriquez, 553 U. S. 377, an ACCA case, supports its position in this case.  Brief for Respondent 29-30.  To the extent that Rodriquez is relevant to the issue at hand, we think the contrary is true.  In that decision we considered whether a recidivist finding under state law that had the effect of increasing the "maximum term of imprisonment" to 10 years, irrespective of the actual sentence imposed, made the offense a "serious drug offense" within the meaning of 18 U. S. C. §924(e)(1) and therefore an ACCA predicate offense.  553 U. S., at 382.  We held that a recidivist finding could set the "maximum term of imprisonment," but only when the finding is a part of the record of conviction.  Id., at 389.  Indeed, we specifically observed that "in those cases in which the records that may properly be consulted do not show that the defendant faced the possibility of a recidivist enhancement, it may well be that the Government will be precluded from establishing that a conviction was for a qualifying offense."  Ibid.  In other words, when the recidivist finding giving rise to a 10-year sentence is not apparent from the sentence itself, or appears neither as part of the "judgment of conviction" nor the "formal charging document," ibid., the Government will not have established that the defendant had a prior conviction for which the maximum term of imprisonment was 10 years or more (assuming the recidivist finding is a necessary precursor to such a sentence).
FOOTNOTESFootnote ** See 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a) (permitting cancellation of removal); §1229b(a)(3) (barring aliens convicted of an "aggravated felony" from cancellation of removal); §1101(a)(43)(B) (defining "aggravated felony" as "illicit trafficking in a controlled substance . . . including a drug trafficking crime (as defined in [18 U. S. C. §924(c)])"); 18 U. S. C §924(c)(2) (defining "drug trafficking crime" to mean "any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act").





United States Supreme Court
HUI ET AL. v. CASTANEDA, AS PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ESTATE OF CASTANEDA, ET AL., (2010)
No. 08-1529
Argued: March 2, 2010    Decided: May 3, 2010


While detained by immigration authorities, Francisco Castenada persistently sought treatment for a bleeding, suppurating lesion.  Although a U. S. Public Health Service (PHS) physician's assistant and three outside specialists repeatedly advised that Castaneda urgently needed a biopsy, petitioners--a PHS physician and a commissioned PHS officer--denied the request.  After Castaneda was released from custody, tests confirmed that he had metastatic cancer.  He then filed this suit, raising medical negligence claims against the United States under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), 28 U. S. C. §§1346, 2671-2680, and constitutional claims against petitioners under Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388, 397.  When Castaneda died, respondents, his representative and heir, were substituted as plaintiffs.  The District Court denied petitioners' motion to dismiss the Bivens action, rejecting their claim of absolute immunity under 42 U. S. C. §233(a), which provides: "The [FTCA] remedy against the United States provided by [28 U. S. C. §§1346(b) and 2672] for damage for personal injury, including death, resulting from the performance of medical ... or related functions ... by any [PHS] commissioned officer or employee ... while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall be exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding by reason of the same subject-matter against the officer or employee."  (Emphasis added.)  The Ninth Circuit affirmed.  
Held: The immunity provided by §233(a) precludes Bivens actions against individual PHS officers or employees for harms arising out of constitutional violations committed while acting within the scope of their office or employment.  Pp. 5-13.
     (a) The Court's inquiry begins and ends with §233(a)'s text, which plainly precludes a Bivens action against petitioners by limiting recovery for harms arising from the conduct at issue to an FTCA action against the United States.  The breadth of §233(a)'s words "exclusive" and "any" supports this reading, as does the provision's inclusive reference to all civil proceedings arising out of "the same subject-matter."  Because the phrase "exclusive of any other civil action" is easily broad enough to accommodate both known and unknown causes of action, the Court's reading is not undermined by the fact that §233(a) preceded Bivens.  The later enacted Westfall Act further supports this understanding of §233(a).  In amending the FTCA to make its remedy against the United States exclusive for most claims against Government employees for their official conduct, the Westfall Act essentially duplicated §233(a)'s exclusivity language, 28 U. S. C. § 2679(b)(1), but provided an explicit exception for constitutional violations, §2679(b)(2).  This shows that Congress did not understand the exclusivity provided by §2679(b)(1)--or the substantially similar §233(a)--to imply such an exception.  Pp. 5-7. 


     (b) Respondents' arguments to the contrary do not undermine the Court's conclusion.  Pp. 7-12.  


          (1) Respondents' heavy reliance on Carlson v. Green, 446 U. S. 14, is misplaced.  Carlson is inapposite to the issue in this case--whether petitioners are immune from suit for the alleged violations--because the Carlson petitioners invoked no official immunity.  Instead, the case considered the separate question whether a remedy was available under the Eighth Amendment for alleged violations of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause notwithstanding that a federal remedy was also available under the FTCA.  Pp. 7-8.


          (2) Contrary to respondents' contention, §233(a) does not incorporate a Bivens exception through its cross-reference to §1346(b) and that section's cross-reference to the FTCA, which includes the Westfall Act exception for constitutional claims, §2679(b)(2)(A).  Because §233(a) refers only to "[t]he remedy ... provided by sections 1346(b) and 2672" (emphasis added), only those portions of the FTCA that establish its remedy are incorporated by §233(a)'s reference to §1346.  Section 2679(b) is not such a provision.  Pp. 8-10.  


          (3) Respondents' claim that the Westfall Act's Bivens exception, §2679(b)(2)(A), directly preserves a Bivens action against PHS officers and employees is belied by the fact that the provision by its terms applies only to the specific immunity set forth in "[p]aragraph (1)."  Moreover, if §233(a) forecloses a Bivens action against PHS personnel, respondents' reading of §2679(b)(2)(A) would effect an implied repeal of the more specific §233(a).  Repeals by implication are not favored and will not be presumed absent a clear and manifest legislative intent to repeal.  Hawaii v. Office of Hawaiian Affairs, 556 U. S. ___, ___.  Nothing suggests that Congress intended §2679(b) to repeal §233(a)'s more comprehensive immunity.  P. 10.


          (4) Respondents' contention that other features of §233 show that §233(a) does not make the FTCA remedy exclusive of all other actions against PHS personnel is rejected.  Neither §233(c) nor §233(f) indicates that an injured party may maintain a Bivens action against an individual PHS officer or employee in these circumstances.  Pp. 10-12. 
546 F. 3d 682, reversed and remanded.
     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.


ESTHER HUI, et al., PETITIONERS v. YANIRA CASTANEDA, as personal representativeof the ESTATE OF FRANCISCOCASTANEDA, et al.
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit
[May 3, 2010]

     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.

     This case presents the question whether 42 U. S. C. §233(a), as added, 84 Stat. 1870, precludes an action under Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971), against U. S. Public Health Service (PHS) personnel for constitutional violations arising out of their official duties.  When federal employees are sued for damages for harms caused in the course of their employment, the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), 28 U. S. C. §§1346, 2671-2680, generally authorizes substitution of the United States as the defendant.  Section 233(a) makes the FTCA remedy against the United States "exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding" for any personal injury caused by a PHS officer or employee performing a medical or related function "while acting within the scope of his office or employment."  Based on the plain language of §233(a), we conclude that PHS officers and employees are not personally subject to Bivens actions for harms arising out of such conduct.
I

     Francisco Castaneda was detained by U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at the San Diego Correctional Facility (SDCF) beginning in March 2006.  According to the complaint later filed in the District Court, when Castaneda arrived at SDCF he had on his penis an irregular, raised lesion that measured roughly two centimeters square.1  Castaneda promptly brought his condition to the attention of medical personnel working for the Division of Immigration Health Services, reporting that the lesion was growing in size and becoming more painful and that it frequently bled and emitted a discharge.  Petitioner Dr. Esther Hui, a civilian PHS employee, was the physician responsible for Castaneda's medical care during his detention at SDCF.  Petitioner Commander Stephen Gonsalves, a commissioned PHS officer, was a Health Services Administrator at SDCF during the relevant period.
     Between March 2006 and January 2007, Castaneda persistently sought treatment for his condition.  As his disease progressed, the lesion became increasingly painful and interfered with his urination, defecation, and sleep.  In December 2006, Castaneda additionally reported a lump in his groin.  A PHS physician's assistant and three outside specialists repeatedly advised that Castaneda needed a biopsy to ascertain whether he had cancer.  Petitioners denied requests for a biopsy and other recommended procedures as "elective."  App. 244, 249-251.  Instead, Castaneda was treated with ibuprofen and antibiotics and was given an additional ration of boxer shorts.


     After a fourth specialist recommended a biopsy in January 2007, the procedure was finally authorized.  Instead of providing treatment, however, ICE released Castaneda from custody on February 5.  A week later, biopsy results confirmed that Castaneda was suffering from penile cancer.  The next day, Castaneda had his penis amputated, and he began chemotherapy after tests confirmed that the cancer had metastasized to his groin.  The treatment was unsuccessful, and Castaneda died in February 2008.


     Three months before his death, Castaneda filed suit against petitioners in the United States District Court for the Central District of California.  As relevant, Castaneda raised medical negligence claims against the United States under the FTCA and Bivens claims against petitioners for deliberate indifference to his serious medical needs in violation of his Fifth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendment rights.2  After Castaneda's death, respondents--Castaneda's sister, Yanira Castaneda, and his daughter, Vanessa Castaneda (by and through her mother, Lucia Pelayo)--amended the complaint to substitute themselves as plaintiffs.  Yanira and Vanessa Castaneda are respectively the representative of and heir to Castaneda's estate.


     Petitioners moved to dismiss the claims against them, contending that §233(a) gives them absolute immunity from Bivens actions by making a suit against the United States under the FTCA the exclusive remedy for harms caused by PHS personnel in the course of their medical or related duties.  The District Court denied the motion, concluding that §233(a)'s text and history evidence a congressional intent to preserve Bivens actions.  Castaneda v. United States, 538 F. Supp. 2d 1279, 1288-1295 (2008).  Petitioners filed an interlocutory appeal.3


     The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment that §233(a) does not preclude respondents' Bivens claims.  Castaneda v. United States, 546 F. 3d 682 (2008).4  The court cited Carlson v. Green, 446 U. S. 14 (1980), for the proposition that a Bivens remedy is unavailable only when an alternative remedy is both expressly declared to be a substitute and can be viewed as equally effective, or when special factors militate against direct recovery.  Looking to the statute's text and history, the court noted that §233(a) does not mention the Constitution or recovery thereunder and found it significant that §233 was enacted prior to this Court's decision in Bivens.  Drawing further support for its view from the statute's legislative history and from subsequent congressional enactments, the Court of Appeals concluded that §233(a) does not expressly make the remedy under the FTCA a substitute for relief under Bivens.


     For essentially the reasons given in Carlson, 446 U. S., at 20-23, the Court of Appeals also determined that the FTCA remedy is not equally effective as a Bivens remedy.  Unlike the remedy under the FTCA, the court reasoned, a Bivens remedy is awarded against individual defendants and may include punitive damages.  Additionally, Bivens cases may be tried before a jury, and liability is governed by uniform federal rules rather than the law of the State in which the violation occurred.  After further concluding that no special factors militate against finding a remedy available in these circumstances, the court held that respondents' Bivens action could proceed.


     As the Ninth Circuit recognized, its holding conflicts with the Second Circuit's decision in Cuoco v. Moritsugu, 222 F. 3d 99 (2000), which construed §233(a) to foreclose Bivens actions against PHS personnel.  We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict.  557 U. S. ___ (2009).
II
A

     Our inquiry in this case begins and ends with the text of §233(a).  See Harris Trust and Sav. Bank v. Salomon Smith Barney Inc., 530 U. S. 238, 254 (2000).  The statute provides in pertinent part that:
"[t]he remedy against the United States provided by sections 1346(b) and 2672 of title 28 ... for damage for personal injury, including death, resulting from the performance of medical, surgical, dental, or related functions, including the conduct of clinical studies or investigation, by any commissioned officer or employee of the Public Health Service while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall be exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding by reason of the same subject-matter against the officer or employee (or his estate) whose act or omission gave rise to the claim."  §233(a) (emphasis added).

Section 233(a) grants absolute immunity to PHS officers and employees for actions arising out of the performance of medical or related functions within the scope of their employment by barring all actions against them for such conduct.  By its terms, §233(a) limits recovery for such conduct to suits against the United States.  The breadth of the words "exclusive" and "any" supports this reading, as does the provision's inclusive reference to all civil proceedings arising out of "the same subject-matter."  We have previously cited §233(a) to support the contention that "Congress follows the practice of explicitly stating when it means to make FTCA an exclusive remedy."  Carlson, 446 U. S., at 20.  The meaning of §233(a) has become no less explicit since we last made that observation.


     Our reading of §233(a)'s text is not undermined by the fact that the provision preceded our decision in Bivens.  Contrary to the view of the Court of Appeals, that a Bivens remedy had not yet been recognized when §233(a) was enacted does not support the conclusion that Congress, in making the remedy provided by the FTCA "exclusive of any other civil action," did not mean what it said.  Language that broad easily accommodates both known and unknown causes of action.


     The later enacted Federal Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act of 1988 (Westfall Act), 102 Stat. 4563, further supports this understanding of §233(a).  The Westfall Act amended the FTCA to make its remedy against the United States the exclusive remedy for most claims against Government employees arising out of their official conduct.5  In providing this official immunity, Congress used essentially the same language as it did in §233(a), stating that the remedy against the United States is "exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding," §2679(b)(1).  Notably, Congress also provided an exception for constitutional violations.  Pursuant to §2679(b)(2), the immunity granted by §2679(b)(1) "does not extend or apply to a civil action against an employee of the Government ... brought for a violation of the Constitution of the United States."  §2679(b)(2)(A).  The Westfall Act's explicit exception for Bivens claims is powerful evidence that Congress did not understand the exclusivity provided by §2679(b)(1)--or the substantially similar §233(a)--to imply such an exception.  Given Congress' awareness of pre-existing immunity provisions like §233 when it enacted the Westfall Act, see United States v. Smith, 499 U. S. 160, 173 (1991), it is telling that Congress declined to enact a similar exception to the immunity provided by §233(a).
B

     In advocating a contrary reading of §233(a), respondents rely heavily on our opinion in Carlson, as did the Court of Appeals.  Carlson, however, is inapposite to the issue in this case.  There are two separate inquiries involved in determining whether a Bivens action may proceed against a federal agent: whether the agent is amenable to suit, and whether a damages remedy is available for a particular constitutional violation absent authorization by Congress.  See United States v. Stanley, 483 U. S. 669, 684 (1987) ("[T]he availability of a damages action under the Constitution for particular injuries ... is a question logically distinct from immunity to such an action on the part of particular defendants").  Even in circumstances in which a Bivens remedy is generally available, an action under Bivens will be defeated if the defendant is immune from suit.  See, e.g., 403 U. S., at 397-398 (remanding for determination of respondents' immunity after implying a cause of action under the Fourth Amendment).
     Because petitioners in Carlson invoked no official immunity, the Court did not address that question.  Instead, it considered whether a remedy was available under the Eighth Amendment for alleged violations of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause notwithstanding that a federal remedy was also available under the FTCA.  446 U. S., at 16-17.  Many of our subsequent Bivens decisions likewise addressed only the existence of an implied cause of action for an alleged constitutional violation.  See, e.g., Wilkie v. Robbins, 551 U. S. 537, 549 (2007) (declining "to devise a new Bivens damages action for retaliating against the exercise of ownership rights"); Bush v. Lucas, 462 U. S. 367, 368 (1983) (declining to "authorize a new nonstatutory damages remedy for federal employees whose First Amendment rights are violated by their superiors").


     This case presents the separate question whether petitioners are immune from suit for the alleged violations.  To determine a defendant's amenability to suit, we consider whether he or she may claim the benefits of official immunity for the alleged misconduct.  Because petitioners invoke only the immunity provided by §233(a), the question in this case is answered solely by reference to whether that provision gives petitioners the immunity they claim.6


     As noted, the text of §233(a) plainly indicates that it precludes a Bivens action against petitioners for the harm alleged in this case.  Respondents offer three arguments in support of their claim that it does not.  None persuades us that §233(a) means something other than what it says.


     Respondents first contend that §233(a) incorporates the entirety of the FTCA, as amended by the Westfall Act, through its reference to §1346(b).7  Section 1346(b) in turn refers to "the provisions of chapter 171," which constitute the FTCA, including the Westfall Act's exception for claims "brought for a violation of the Constitution of the United States," §2679(b)(2)(A).  Through this series of cross-references, respondents would read that exception for Bivens actions into §233(a).


     Section 233(a) is not susceptible of this reading.  As petitioners observe, that provision refers only to "[t]he remedy against the United States provided by sections 1346(b) and 2672."  §233(a) (emphasis added).  Thus, only those portions of chapter 171 that establish the FTCA remedy are incorporated by §233(a)'s reference to §1346.  Section 2679(b) is not such a provision.  Section 233(a)'s reference to §26728--which is codified in chapter 171--also belies respondents' theory.  If §233(a)'s reference to §1346(b) served to incorporate all the provisions of chapter 171, the separate reference to §2672 would be superfluous.


     Respondents next argue that the Westfall Act's Bivens exception, §2679(b)(2)(A), directly preserves a Bivens action against PHS officers and employees.  That §2679(b)(2)(A) by its terms applies only to the specific immunity set forth in "[p]aragraph (1)" belies respondents' claim.  Moreover, if §233(a) forecloses a Bivens action against PHS personnel, respondents' reading of §2679(b)(2)(A) would effect an implied repeal of that more specific provision.  Although we noted in Smith that §2679(b) applies to all federal employees, see 499 U. S., at 173, we had no occasion to consider whether the Bivens exception in §2679(b)(2)(A) impliedly repealed pre-existing immunity provisions to the extent of any inconsistency.  "As we have emphasized, repeals by implication are not favored and will not be presumed unless the intention of the legislature to repeal is clear and manifest."  Hawaii v. Office of Hawaiian Affairs, 556 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2009) (slip op., at 10-11) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).  Respondents have pointed to nothing in §2679(b)'s text or drafting history that suggests that Congress intended to repeal the more comprehensive immunity provided by §233(a).


     Finally, respondents contend that other features of §233 show that subsection (a) does not make the remedy under the FTCA exclusive of all other actions against PHS personnel.  Respondents first note §233's lack of a procedure for "scope certification" in federal-court actions.  Under the FTCA, "certification by the Attorney General that the defendant employee was acting within the scope of his office or employment at the time of the incident out of which the claim arose" transforms an action against an individual federal employee into one against the United States.  §2679(d)(1).  Because §233 does not provide a similar mechanism for scope certification in federal-court actions,9 respondents contend that PHS defendants seeking to invoke the immunity provided by §233(a) must rely on the FTCA's scope certification procedure, set forth in §2679(d).  Section 2679(d), respondents note, is in turn subject to the "limitations and exceptions" applicable to actions under the FTCA--including the exception for Bivens actions provided by §2679(b)(2).  See §2679(d)(4).


     We agree with petitioners that there is no reason to think that scope certification by the Attorney General is a prerequisite to immunity under §233(a).  To be sure, that immunity is contingent upon the alleged misconduct having occurred in the course of the PHS defendant's duties, but a defendant may make that proof pursuant to the ordinary rules of evidence and procedure.  As petitioners observe, proof of scope is in most §233(a) cases established by a declaration affirming that the defendant was a PHS official during the relevant time period.  See Reply Brief for Petitioner Hui 6-7, and n. 1.  Thus, while scope certification may provide a convenient mechanism for establishing that the alleged misconduct occurred within the scope of the employee's duties, the procedure authorized by §2679(d) is not necessary to effect substitution of the United States.  Finally, that the FTCA's scope certification procedure was enacted almost two decades after §233(a) confirms that Congress did not intend to make that procedure the exclusive means for PHS personnel to invoke the official immunity provided by §233(a).


     Respondents' argument based on §233(f) is similarly unavailing.  That subsection authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to "hold harmless or provide liability insurance" for a PHS officer or employee for personal injuries caused by conduct occurring "within the scope of his office or employment ... if such employee is assigned to a foreign country ... and if the circumstances are such as are likely to preclude the remedies of third persons against the United States described in section 2679(b)."  Noting that the FTCA precludes recovery against the United States for "[a]ny claim arising in a foreign country," §2680(k), respondents urge that §233(f)'s authorization of insurance or indemnification in those circumstances anticipates that an injured party without a remedy under the FTCA may sue a PHS official directly.10  Accordingly, respondents contend, §233(a) cannot be read to make the remedy under the FTCA truly exclusive.  Even if that reading of §233(f) were correct, it would not benefit respondents because an FTCA remedy is unquestionably available for the misconduct alleged in this case.


     For the foregoing reasons, respondents' arguments do not undermine our conclusion that the immunity provided by §233(a) precludes Bivens actions against individual PHS officers or employees for harms arising out of conduct described in that section.
*  *  *

     In construing §233(a) in petitioners' favor, we are mindful of the confines of our judicial role.  Respondents' amici caution that providing special immunity for PHS personnel is contrary to the public interest.11  Respondents likewise contend that allowing Bivens claims against PHS personnel is necessary to ensure an adequate standard of care in federal detention facilities, and they further urge that permitting such actions would not endanger PHS' institutional interests as it would simply place PHS personnel in the same position as other federal employees who perform similar functions.  See Brief for Respondents 52-55, 60-61.  We are required, however, to read the statute according to its text.  Because §233(a) plainly precludes a Bivens action against petitioners for the harms alleged in this case, we reverse the judgment of the Ninth Circuit and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 Because this case comes to us on petitioners' motion to dismiss, we assume the truth of respondents' factual allegations.  See Fitzgerald v. Barnstable School Comm., 555 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (slip op., at 1).
Footnote 2 In Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388, 397 (1971), this Court recognized an implied cause of action for damages against federal officers alleged to have violated the petitioner's Fourth Amendment rights.  We subsequently found such a remedy available for violations of an individual's rights under the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause of the Eighth Amendment and the Due Process Clause.  See Carlson v. Green, 446 U. S. 14, 17-19 (1980); Davis v. Passman, 442 U. S. 228, 230 (1979).
Footnote 3 Although it does not bear directly on the question presented in this case, we note that while petitioners' appeal was pending the Government filed a formal notice admitting liability with respect to respondents' claims for medical negligence under the FTCA.  App. 329.
Footnote 4 The court concluded that it had jurisdiction over the interlocutory appeal because district court orders denying absolute immunity constitute "final decisions" for purposes of 28 U. S. C. §1291.  See 546 F. 3d, at 687 (citing Mitchell v. Forsyth, 472 U. S. 511, 524-527 (1985)); see also Osborn v. Haley, 549 U. S. 225, 238-239 (2007).
Footnote 5 Prior to the Westfall Act amendments, the FTCA authorized substitution of the United States as a defendant in suits against federal employees for harms arising out of conduct undertaken in the scope of their employment, see 28 U. S. C. §1346(b) (1982 ed.), but it made that remedy "exclusive" only for harms resulting from a federal employee's operation of a motor vehicle, §2679(b).
Footnote 6 We express no opinion as to whether a Bivens remedy is otherwise available in these circumstances, as the question is not presented in this case.
Footnote 7 Section 1346(b) provides in pertinent part that, "[s]ubject to the provisions of chapter 171 of [Title 28], the district courts ... shall have exclusive jurisdiction of civil actions on claims against the United States, for money damages ... for injury or loss of property, or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the Government while acting within the scope of his office or employment."
Footnote 8 Section 2672 authorizes agency heads and their designees to "consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise, and settle any claim for money damages against the United States for injury or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the agency while acting within the scope of his office or employment, under circumstances where the United States, if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred."
Footnote 9 Section 233(c) includes such a provision for state-court actions, authorizing removal to federal court "[u]pon a certification by the Attorney General that the defendant was acting in the scope of his employment at the time of the incident out of which the suit arose," but unlike §2679(d) it does not prescribe a particular mechanism for substituting the United States in federal-court actions.
Footnote 10 As respondents note, the Westfall Act substantially limited the effect of §233(f).  See Brief for Respondents 32 (citing United States v. Smith, 499 U. S. 160, 166-167 (1991)).  But because the Act does not weaken any inference about the meaning of §233(a) that might be drawn from §233(f), the changes effected by the Act are not relevant to the instant inquiry.
Footnote 11 See Brief for American Civil Liberties Union as Amicus Curiae 25-28; Brief for National Experts on Health Services for Detained Persons as Amici Curiae 17-24; Brief for National Immigrant Justice Center as Amicus Curiae 20-21; Brief for Rep. John Conyers, Jr., et al. as Amici Curiae 25-31.





United States Supreme Court
PADILLA v. KENTUCKY, (2010)
No. 08-651
Argued: October 13, 2009    Decided: March 31, 2010


Petitioner Padilla, a lawful permanent resident of the United States for over 40 years, faces deportation after pleading guilty to drug-distribution charges in Kentucky.  In postconviction proceedings, he claims that his counsel not only failed to advise him of this consequence before he entered the plea, but also told him not to worry about deportation since he had lived in this country so long.  He alleges that he would have gone to trial had he not received this incorrect advice.  The Kentucky Supreme Court denied Padilla postconviction relief on the ground that the Sixth Amendment's effective-assistance-of-counsel guarantee does not protect defendants from erroneous deportation advice because deportation is merely a "collateral" consequence of a conviction.  
Held: Because counsel must inform a client whether his plea carries a risk of deportation, Padilla has sufficiently alleged that his counsel was constitutionally deficient.  Whether he is entitled to relief depends on whether he has been prejudiced, a matter not addressed here.  Pp. 2-18.
     (a) Changes to immigration law have dramatically raised the stakes of a noncitizen's criminal conviction.  While once there was only a narrow class of deportable offenses and judges wielded broad discretionary authority to prevent deportation, immigration reforms have expanded the class of deportable offenses and limited judges' authority to alleviate deportation's harsh consequences.  Because the drastic measure of deportation or removal is now virtually inevitable for a vast number of noncitizens convicted of crimes, the importance of accurate legal advice for noncitizens accused of crimes has never been more important.  Thus, as a matter of federal law, deportation is an integral part of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified crimes.  Pp. 2-6.


     (b) Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, applies to Padilla's claim.  Before deciding whether to plead guilty, a defendant is entitled to "the effective assistance of competent counsel."  McMann v. Richardson, 397 U. S. 759, 771.  The Supreme Court of Kentucky rejected Padilla's ineffectiveness claim on the ground that the advice he sought about deportation concerned only collateral matters.  However, this Court has never distinguished between direct and collateral consequences in defining the scope of constitutionally "reasonable professional assistance" required under Strickland, 466 U. S., at 689.  The question whether that distinction is appropriate need not be considered in this case because of the unique nature of deportation.  Although removal proceedings are civil, deportation is intimately related to the criminal process, which makes it uniquely difficult to classify as either a direct or a collateral consequence.  Because that distinction is thus ill-suited to evaluating a Strickland claim concerning the specific risk of deportation, advice regarding deportation is not categorically removed from the ambit of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel.  Pp. 7-9.


     (c) To satisfy Strickland's two-prong inquiry, counsel's representation must fall "below an objective standard of reasonableness," 466 U. S., at 688, and there must be "a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different," id., at 694.  The first, constitutional deficiency, is necessarily linked to the legal community's practice and expectations.  Id., at 688.  The weight of prevailing professional norms supports the view that counsel must advise her client regarding the deportation risk.  And this Court has recognized the importance to the client of " '[p]reserving the ... right to remain in the United States' " and "preserving the possibility of" discretionary relief from deportation.  INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 323.  Thus, this is not a hard case in which to find deficiency: The consequences of Padilla's plea could easily be determined from reading the removal statute, his deportation was presumptively mandatory, and his counsel's advice was incorrect.  There will, however, undoubtedly be numerous situations in which the deportation consequences of a plea are unclear.  In those cases, a criminal defense attorney need do no more than advise a noncitizen client that pending criminal charges may carry adverse immigration consequences.  But when the deportation consequence is truly clear, as it was here, the duty to give correct advice is equally clear.  Accepting Padilla's allegations as true, he has sufficiently alleged constitutional deficiency to satisfy Strickland's first prong.  Whether he can satisfy the second prong, prejudice, is left for the Kentucky courts to consider in the first instance.  Pp. 9-12.


     (d) The Solicitor General's proposed rule--that Strickland should be applied to Padilla's claim only to the extent that he has alleged affirmative misadvice--is unpersuasive.  And though this Court must be careful about recognizing new grounds for attacking the validity of guilty pleas, the 25 years since Strickland was first applied to ineffective-assistance claims at the plea stage have shown that pleas are less frequently the subject of collateral challenges than convictions after a trial.  Also, informed consideration of possible deportation can benefit both the State and noncitizen defendants, who may be able to reach agreements that better satisfy the interests of both parties.  This decision will not open the floodgates to challenges of convictions obtained through plea bargains.  Cf. Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 58.  Pp. 12-16.
253 S. W. 3d 482, reversed and remanded.
     Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Roberts, C. J., joined.  Scalia, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined.


JOSE PADILLA, PETITIONER v. KENTUCKY
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of kentucky
[March 31, 2010]

     Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court.

     Petitioner Jose Padilla, a native of Honduras, has been a lawful permanent resident of the United States for more than 40 years.  Padilla served this Nation with honor as a member of the U. S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War.  He now faces deportation after pleading guilty to the transportation of a large amount of marijuana in his tractor-trailer in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.1


     In this postconviction proceeding, Padilla claims that his counsel not only failed to advise him of this consequence prior to his entering the plea, but also told him that he " 'did not have to worry about immigration status since he had been in the country so long.' "  253 S. W. 3d 482, 483 (Ky. 2008).  Padilla relied on his counsel's erroneous advice when he pleaded guilty to the drug charges that made his deportation virtually mandatory.  He alleges that he would have insisted on going to trial if he had not received incorrect advice from his attorney.


     Assuming the truth of his allegations, the Supreme Court of Kentucky denied Padilla postconviction relief without the benefit of an evidentiary hearing.  The court held that the Sixth Amendment's guarantee of effective assistance of counsel does not protect a criminal defendant from erroneous advice about deportation because it is merely a "collateral" consequence of his conviction.  Id., at 485.  In its view, neither counsel's failure to advise petitioner about the possibility of removal, nor counsel's incorrect advice, could provide a basis for relief.


     We granted certiorari, 555 U. S. ___ (2009), to decide whether, as a matter of federal law, Padilla's counsel had an obligation to advise him that the offense to which he was pleading guilty would result in his removal from this country.  We agree with Padilla that constitutionally competent counsel would have advised him that his conviction for drug distribution made him subject to automatic deportation.  Whether he is entitled to relief depends on whether he has been prejudiced, a matter that we do not address.
I

     The landscape of federal immigration law has changed dramatically over the last 90 years.  While once there was only a narrow class of deportable offenses and judges wielded broad discretionary authority to prevent deportation, immigration reforms over time have expanded the class of deportable offenses and limited the authority of judges to alleviate the harsh consequences of deportation.  The "drastic measure" of deportation or removal, Fong Haw Tan v. Phelan, 333 U. S. 6, 10 (1948), is now virtually inevitable for a vast number of noncitizens convicted of crimes.
     The Nation's first 100 years was "a period of unimpeded immigration."  C. Gordon & H. Rosenfield, Immigration Law and Procedure §1.(2)(a), p. 5 (1959).  An early effort to empower the President to order the deportation of those immigrants he "judge[d] dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States," Act of June 25, 1798, ch. 58, 1 Stat. 571, was short lived and unpopular.  Gordon §1.2, at 5.  It was not until 1875 that Congress first passed a statute barring convicts and prostitutes from entering the country, Act of Mar. 3, 1875, ch. 141, 18 Stat. 477.  Gordon §1.2b, at 6.  In 1891, Congress added to the list of excludable persons those "who have been convicted of a felony or other infamous crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude."  Act of Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 551, 26 Stat. 1084.2


     The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1917 (1917 Act) brought "radical changes" to our law.  S. Rep. No. 1515, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 54-55 (1950).  For the first time in our history, Congress made classes of noncitizens deportable based on conduct committed on American soil.  Id., at 55.  Section 19 of the 1917 Act authorized the deportation of "any alien who is hereafter sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year or more because of conviction in this country of a crime involving moral turpitude, committed within five years after the entry of the alien to the United States ... ."  39 Stat. 889.  And §19 also rendered deportable noncitizen recidivists who commit two or more crimes of moral turpitude at any time after entry.  Ibid.  Congress did not, however, define the term "moral turpitude."


     While the 1917 Act was "radical" because it authorized deportation as a consequence of certain convictions, the Act also included a critically important procedural protection to minimize the risk of unjust deportation: At the time of sentencing or within 30 days thereafter, the sentencing judge in both state and federal prosecutions had the power to make a recommendation "that such alien shall not be deported."  Id., at 890.3  This procedure, known as a judicial recommendation against deportation, or JRAD, had the effect of binding the Executive to prevent deportation; the statute was "consistently ... interpreted as giving the sentencing judge conclusive authority to decide whether a particular conviction should be disregarded as a basis for deportation," Janvier v. United States, 793 F. 2d 449, 452 (CA2 1986).  Thus, from 1917 forward, there was no such creature as an automatically deportable offense.  Even as the class of deportable offenses expanded, judges retained discretion to ameliorate unjust results on a case-by-case basis.


     Although narcotics offenses--such as the offense at issue in this case--provided a distinct basis for deportation as early as 1922,4 the JRAD procedure was generally available to avoid deportation in narcotics convictions.  See United States v. O'Rourke, 213 F. 2d 759, 762 (CA8 1954).  Except for "technical, inadvertent and insignificant violations of the laws relating to narcotics," ibid., it appears that courts treated narcotics offenses as crimes involving moral turpitude for purposes of the 1917 Act's broad JRAD provision.  See ibid. (recognizing that until 1952 a JRAD in a narcotics case "was effective to prevent deportation" (citing Dang Nam v. Bryan, 74 F. 2d 379, 380-381 (CA9 1934))).


     In light of both the steady expansion of deportable offenses and the significant ameliorative effect of a JRAD, it is unsurprising that, in the wake of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), the Second Circuit held that the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel applies to a JRAD request or lack thereof, see Janvier, 793 F. 2d 449.  See also United States v. Castro, 26 F. 3d 557 (CA5 1994).  In its view, seeking a JRAD was "part of the sentencing" process, Janvier, 793 F. 2d, at 452, even if deportation itself is a civil action.  Under the Second Circuit's reasoning, the impact of a conviction on a noncitizen's ability to remain in the country was a central issue to be resolved during the sentencing process--not merely a collateral matter outside the scope of counsel's duty to provide effective representation.


     However, the JRAD procedure is no longer part of our law.  Congress first circumscribed the JRAD provision in the 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act (INA),5 and in 1990 Congress entirely eliminated it, 104 Stat. 5050.  In 1996, Congress also eliminated the Attorney General's authority to grant discretionary relief from deportation, 110 Stat. 3009-596, an authority that had been exercised to prevent the deportation of over 10,000 noncitizens during the 5-year period prior to 1996, INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 296 (2001).  Under contemporary law, if a noncitizen has committed a removable offense after the 1996 effective date of these amendments, his removal is practically inevitable but for the possible exercise of limited remnants of equitable discretion vested in the Attorney General to cancel removal for noncitizens convicted of particular classes of offenses.6  See 8 U. S. C. §1229b.  Subject to limited exceptions, this discretionary relief is not available for an offense related to trafficking in a controlled substance.  See §1101(a)(43)(B); §1228.


     These changes to our immigration law have dramatically raised the stakes of a noncitizen's criminal conviction.  The importance of accurate legal advice for noncitizens accused of crimes has never been more important.  These changes confirm our view that, as a matter of federal law, deportation is an integral part--indeed, sometimes the most important part 7--of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified crimes.
II

     Before deciding whether to plead guilty, a defendant is entitled to "the effective assistance of competent counsel."  McMann v. Richardson, 397 U. S. 759, 771 (1970); Strickland, 466 U. S., at 686.  The Supreme Court of Kentucky rejected Padilla's ineffectiveness claim on the ground that the advice he sought about the risk of deportation concerned only collateral matters, i.e., those matters not within the sentencing authority of the state trial court.8  253 S. W. 3d, at 483-484 (citing Commonwealth v. Fuartado, 170 S. W. 3d 384 (2005)).  In its view, "collateral consequences are outside the scope of representation required by the Sixth Amendment," and, therefore, the "failure of defense counsel to advise the defendant of possible deportation consequences is not cognizable as a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel."  253 S. W. 3d, at 483.  The Kentucky high court is far from alone in this view.9
     We, however, have never applied a distinction between direct and collateral consequences to define the scope of constitutionally "reasonable professional assistance" required under Strickland, 466 U. S., at 689.  Whether that distinction is appropriate is a question we need not consider in this case because of the unique nature of deportation.


     We have long recognized that deportation is a particularly severe "penalty," Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 740 (1893); but it is not, in a strict sense, a criminal sanction.  Although removal proceedings are civil in nature, see INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U. S. 1032, 1038 (1984), deportation is nevertheless intimately related to the criminal process.  Our law has enmeshed criminal convictions and the penalty of deportation for nearly a century, see Part I, supra, at 2-7.  And, importantly, recent changes in our immigration law have made removal nearly an automatic result for a broad class of noncitizen offenders.  Thus, we find it "most difficult" to divorce the penalty from the conviction in the deportation context.  United States v. Russell, 686 F. 2d 35, 38 (CADC 1982).  Moreover, we are quite confident that noncitizen defendants facing a risk of deportation for a particular offense find it even more difficult.  See St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322 ("There can be little doubt that, as a general matter, alien defendants considering whether to enter into a plea agreement are acutely aware of the immigration consequences of their convictions").


     Deportation as a consequence of a criminal conviction is, because of its close connection to the criminal process, uniquely difficult to classify as either a direct or a collateral consequence.  The collateral versus direct distinction is thus ill-suited to evaluating a Strickland claim concerning the specific risk of deportation.  We conclude that advice regarding deportation is not categorically removed from the ambit of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel.  Strickland applies to Padilla's claim.
III
     Under Strickland, we first determine whether counsel's representation "fell below an objective standard of reasonableness."  466 U. S., at 688.  Then we ask whether "there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different."  Id., at 694.  The first prong--constitu-tional deficiency--is necessarily linked to the practice and expectations of the legal community: "The proper measure of attorney performance remains simply reasonableness under prevailing professional norms."  Id., at 688.  We long have recognized that "[p]revailing norms of practice as reflected in American Bar Association standards and the like ... are guides to determining what is reasonable ... ."  Ibid.; Bobby v. Van Hook, 558 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (per curiam) (slip op., at 3); Florida v. Nixon, 543 U. S. 175, 191, and n. 6 (2004); Wiggins v. Smith, 539 U. S. 510, 524 (2003); Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 396 (2000).  Although they are "only guides," Strickland, 466 U. S., at 688, and not "inexorable commands," Bobby, 558 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5), these standards may be valuable measures of the prevailing professional norms of effective representation, especially as these standards have been adapted to deal with the intersection of modern criminal prosecutions and immigration law.


     The weight of prevailing professional norms supports the view that counsel must advise her client regarding the risk of deportation.  National Legal Aid and Defender Assn., Performance Guidelines for Criminal Representation §6.2 (1995); G. Herman, Plea Bargaining §3.03, pp. 20-21 (1997); Chin & Holmes, Effective Assistance of Counsel and the Consequences of Guilty Pleas, 87 Cornell L. Rev. 697, 713-718 (2002); A. Campbell, Law of Sentencing §13:23, pp. 555, 560 (3d ed. 2004); Dept. of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, 2 Compendium of Standards for Indigent Defense Systems, Standards for Attorney Performance, pp. D10, H8-H9, J8 (2000) (providing survey of guidelines across multiple jurisdictions); ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Prosecution Function and Defense Function 4-5.1(a), p. 197 (3d ed. 1993); ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Pleas of Guilty 14-3.2(f), p. 116 (3d ed. 1999).  "[A]uthorities of every stripe--including the American Bar Association, criminal defense and public defender organizations, authoritative treatises, and state and city bar publications--universally require defense attorneys to advise as to the risk of deportation consequences for non-citizen clients ... ."  Brief for Legal Ethics, Criminal Procedure, and Criminal Law Professors as Amici Curiae 12-14 (footnotes omitted) (citing, inter alia, National Legal Aid and Defender Assn., Guidelines, supra, §§6.2-6.4 (1997); S. Bratton & E. Kelley, Practice Points: Representing a Noncitizen in a Criminal Case, 31 The Champion 61 (Jan./Feb. 2007); N. Tooby, Criminal Defense of Immigrants §1.3 (3d ed. 2003); 2 Criminal Practice Manual §§45:3, 45:15 (2009)).


     We too have previously recognized that " '[p]reserving the client's right to remain in the United States may be more important to the client than any potential jail sentence.' "  St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 323 (quoting 3 Criminal Defense Techniques §§60A.01, 60A.02[2] (1999)).  Likewise, we have recognized that "preserving the possibility of" discretionary relief from deportation under §212(c) of the 1952 INA, 66 Stat. 187, repealed by Congress in 1996, "would have been one of the principal benefits sought by defendants deciding whether to accept a plea offer or instead to proceed to trial."  St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 323.  We expected that counsel who were unaware of the discretionary relief measures would "follo[w] the advice of numerous practice guides" to advise themselves of the importance of this particular form of discretionary relief.  Ibid., n. 50.


     In the instant case, the terms of the relevant immigration statute are succinct, clear, and explicit in defining the removal consequence for Padilla's conviction.  See 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i) ("Any alien who at any time after admission has been convicted of a violation of (or a conspiracy or attempt to violate) any law or regulation of a State, the United States or a foreign country relating to a controlled substance ... , other than a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana, is deportable").  Padilla's counsel could have easily determined that his plea would make him eligible for deportation simply from reading the text of the statute, which addresses not some broad classification of crimes but specifically commands removal for all controlled substances convictions except for the most trivial of marijuana possession offenses.  Instead, Padilla's counsel provided him false assurance that his conviction would not result in his removal from this country.  This is not a hard case in which to find deficiency: The consequences of Padilla's plea could easily be determined from reading the removal statute, his deportation was presumptively mandatory, and his counsel's advice was incorrect.


     Immigration law can be complex, and it is a legal specialty of its own.  Some members of the bar who represent clients facing criminal charges, in either state or federal court or both, may not be well versed in it.  There will, therefore, undoubtedly be numerous situations in which the deportation consequences of a particular plea are unclear or uncertain.  The duty of the private practitioner in such cases is more limited.  When the law is not succinct and straightforward (as it is in many of the scenarios posited by Justice Alito), a criminal defense attorney need do no more than advise a noncitizen client that pending criminal charges may carry a risk of adverse immigration consequences.10  But when the deportation consequence is truly clear, as it was in this case, the duty to give correct advice is equally clear.


     Accepting his allegations as true, Padilla has sufficiently alleged constitutional deficiency to satisfy the first prong of Strickland.  Whether Padilla is entitled to relief on his claim will depend on whether he can satisfy Strickland's second prong, prejudice, a matter we leave to the Kentucky courts to consider in the first instance.
IV
     The Solicitor General has urged us to conclude that Strickland applies to Padilla's claim only to the extent that he has alleged affirmative misadvice.  In the United States' view, "counsel is not constitutionally required to provide advice on matters that will not be decided in the criminal case ... ," though counsel is required to provide accurate advice if she chooses to discusses these matters.  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 10.


     Respondent and Padilla both find the Solicitor General's proposed rule unpersuasive, although it has support among the lower courts.  See, e.g., United States v. Couto, 311 F. 3d 179, 188 (CA2 2002); United States v. Kwan, 407 F. 3d 1005 (CA9 2005); Sparks v. Sowders, 852 F. 2d 882 (CA6 1988); United States v. Russell, 686 F. 2d 35 (CADC 1982); State v. Rojas-Martinez, 2005 UT 86, 125 P. 3d 930, 935; In re Resendiz, 25 Cal. 4th 230, 19 P. 3d 1171 (2001).  Kentucky describes these decisions isolating an affirmative misadvice claim as "result-driven, incestuous ... [,and] completely lacking in legal or rational bases."  Brief for Respondent 31.  We do not share that view, but we agree that there is no relevant difference "between an act of commission and an act of omission" in this context.  Id., at 30; Strickland, 466 U. S., at 690 ("The court must then determine whether, in light of all the circumstances, the identified acts or omissions were outside the wide range of professionally competent assistance"); see also State v. Paredez, 2004-NMSC-036, 136 N. M. 533, 538-539.


     A holding limited to affirmative misadvice would invite two absurd results.  First, it would give counsel an incentive to remain silent on matters of great importance, even when answers are readily available.  Silence under these circumstances would be fundamentally at odds with the critical obligation of counsel to advise the client of "the advantages and disadvantages of a plea agreement."  Libretti v. United States, 516 U. S. 29, 50-51 (1995).  When attorneys know that their clients face possible exile from this country and separation from their families, they should not be encouraged to say nothing at all.11  Second, it would deny a class of clients least able to represent themselves the most rudimentary advice on deportation even when it is readily available.  It is quintessentially the duty of counsel to provide her client with available advice about an issue like deportation and the failure to do so "clearly satisfies the first prong of the Strickland analysis."  Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 62 (1985) (White, J., concurring in judgment).


     We have given serious consideration to the concerns that the Solicitor General, respondent, and amici have stressed regarding the importance of protecting the finality of convictions obtained through guilty pleas.  We confronted a similar "floodgates" concern in Hill, see id., at 58, but nevertheless applied Strickland to a claim that counsel had failed to advise the client regarding his parole eligibility before he pleaded guilty.12


     A flood did not follow in that decision's wake.  Surmounting Strickland's high bar is never an easy task.  See, e.g., 466 U. S., at 689 ("Judicial scrutiny of counsel's performance must be highly deferential"); id., at 693 (observing that "[a]ttorney errors ... are as likely to be utterly harmless in a particular case as they are to be prejudicial").  Moreover, to obtain relief on this type of claim, a petitioner must convince the court that a decision to reject the plea bargain would have been rational under the circumstances.  See Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470, 480, 486 (2000).  There is no reason to doubt that lower courts--now quite experienced with applying Strickland--can effectively and efficiently use its framework to separate specious claims from those with substantial merit.


     It seems unlikely that our decision today will have a significant effect on those convictions already obtained as the result of plea bargains.  For at least the past 15 years, professional norms have generally imposed an obligation on counsel to provide advice on the deportation consequences of a client's plea.  See, supra, at 11-13.  We should, therefore, presume that counsel satisfied their obligation to render competent advice at the time their clients considered pleading guilty.  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 689.


     Likewise, although we must be especially careful about recognizing new grounds for attacking the validity of guilty pleas, in the 25 years since we first applied Strickland to claims of ineffective assistance at the plea stage, practice has shown that pleas are less frequently the subject of collateral challenges than convictions obtained after a trial.  Pleas account for nearly 95% of all criminal convictions.13  But they account for only approximately 30% of the habeas petitions filed.14  The nature of relief secured by a successful collateral challenge to a guilty plea--an opportunity to withdraw the plea and proceed to trial--imposes its own significant limiting principle: Those who collaterally attack their guilty pleas lose the benefit of the bargain obtained as a result of the plea.  Thus, a different calculus informs whether it is wise to challenge a guilty plea in a habeas proceeding because, ultimately, the challenge may result in a less favorable outcome for the defendant, whereas a collateral challenge to a conviction obtained after a jury trial has no similar downside potential.


     Finally, informed consideration of possible deportation can only benefit both the State and noncitizen defendants during the plea-bargaining process.  By bringing deportation consequences into this process, the defense and prosecution may well be able to reach agreements that better satisfy the interests of both parties.  As in this case, a criminal episode may provide the basis for multiple charges, of which only a subset mandate deportation following conviction.  Counsel who possess the most rudimentary understanding of the deportation consequences of a particular criminal offense may be able to plea bargain creatively with the prosecutor in order to craft a conviction and sentence that reduce the likelihood of deportation, as by avoiding a conviction for an offense that automatically triggers the removal consequence.  At the same time, the threat of deportation may provide the defendant with a powerful incentive to plead guilty to an offense that does not mandate that penalty in exchange for a dismissal of a charge that does.


     In sum, we have long recognized that the negotiation of a plea bargain is a critical phase of litigation for purposes of the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel.  Hill, 474 U. S., at 57; see also Richardson, 397 U. S., at 770-771.  The severity of deportation--"the equivalent of banishment or exile," Delgadillo v. Carmichael, 332 U. S. 388, 390-391 (1947)--only underscores how critical it is for counsel to inform her noncitizen client that he faces a risk of deportation.15
V

     It is our responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that no criminal defendant--whether a citizen or not--is left to the "mercies of incompetent counsel."  Richardson, 397 U. S., at 771.  To satisfy this responsibility, we now hold that counsel must inform her client whether his plea carries a risk of deportation.  Our longstanding Sixth Amendment precedents, the seriousness of deportation as a consequence of a criminal plea, and the concomitant impact of deportation on families living lawfully in this country demand no less.
     Taking as true the basis for his motion for postconviction relief, we have little difficulty concluding that Padilla has sufficiently alleged that his counsel was constitutionally deficient.  Whether Padilla is entitled to relief will depend on whether he can demonstrate prejudice as a result thereof, a question we do not reach because it was not passed on below.  See Verizon Communications Inc. v. FCC, 535 U. S. 467, 530 (2002).


     The judgment of the Supreme Court of Kentucky is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.


JOSE PADILLA, PETITIONER v. KENTUCKY
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of kentucky
[March 31, 2010]

     Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice joins, concurring in the judgment.

     I concur in the judgment because a criminal defense attorney fails to provide effective assistance within the meaning of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), if the attorney misleads a noncitizen client regarding the removal consequences of a conviction.  In my view, such an attorney must (1) refrain from unreasonably providing incorrect advice and (2) advise the defendant that a criminal conviction may have adverse immigration consequences and that, if the alien wants advice on this issue, the alien should consult an immigration attorney.  I do not agree with the Court that the attorney must attempt to explain what those consequences may be.  As the Court concedes, "[i]mmigration law can be complex"; "it is a legal specialty of its own"; and "[s]ome members of the bar who represent clients facing criminal charges, in either state or federal court or both, may not be well versed in it."  Ante, at 11.  The Court nevertheless holds that a criminal defense attorney must provide advice in this specialized area in those cases in which the law is "succinct and straightforward"--but not, perhaps, in other situations.  Ante, at 11-12.  This vague, halfway test will lead to much confusion and needless litigation.
I

     Under Strickland, an attorney provides ineffective assistance if the attorney's representation does not meet reasonable professional standards.  466 U. S., at 688.  Until today, the longstanding and unanimous position of the federal courts was that reasonable defense counsel generally need only advise a client about the direct consequences of a criminal conviction.  See, e.g., United States v. Gonzalez, 202 F. 3d 20, 28 (CA1 2000) (ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim fails if "based on an attorney's failure to advise a client of his plea's immigration consequences"); United States v. Banda, 1 F. 3d 354, 355 (CA5 1993) (holding that "an attorney's failure to advise a client that deportation is a possible consequence of a guilty plea does not constitute ineffective assistance of counsel"); see generally Chin & Holmes, Effective Assistance of Counsel and the Consequences of Guilty Pleas, 87 Cornell L. Rev. 697, 699 (2002) (hereinafter Chin & Holmes) (noting that "virtually all jurisdictions"--including "eleven federal circuits, more than thirty states, and the District of Columbia"--"hold that defense counsel need not discuss with their clients the collateral consequences of a conviction," including deportation).  While the line between "direct" and "collateral" consequences is not always clear, see ante, at 7, n. 8, the collateral-consequences rule expresses an important truth: Criminal defense attorneys have expertise regarding the conduct of criminal proceedings.  They are not expected to possess--and very often do not possess--expertise in other areas of the law, and it is unrealistic to expect them to provide expert advice on matters that lie outside their area of training and experience.
     This case happens to involve removal, but criminal convictions can carry a wide variety of consequences other than conviction and sentencing, including civil commitment, civil forfeiture, the loss of the right to vote, disqualification from public benefits, ineligibility to possess firearms, dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces, and loss of business or professional licenses.  Chin & Holmes 705-706.  A criminal conviction may also severely damage a defendant's reputation and thus impair the defendant's ability to obtain future employment or business opportunities.  All of those consequences are "seriou[s]," see ante, at 17, but this Court has never held that a criminal defense attorney's Sixth Amendment duties extend to providing advice about such matters.


     The Court tries to justify its dramatic departure from precedent by pointing to the views of various professional organizations.  See ante, at 9 ("The weight of prevailing professional norms supports the view that counsel must advise her client regarding the risk of deportation").  However, ascertaining the level of professional competence required by the Sixth Amendment is ultimately a task for the courts.  E.g., Roe v. Flores-Ortega, 528 U. S. 470, 477 (2000).  Although we may appropriately consult standards promulgated by private bar groups, we cannot delegate to these groups our task of determining what the Constitution commands.  See Strickland, supra, at 688 (explaining that "[p]revailing norms of practice as reflected in American Bar Association standards ... are guides to determining what is reasonable, but they are only guides").  And we must recognize that such standards may represent only the aspirations of a bar group rather than an empirical assessment of actual practice.


     Even if the only relevant consideration were "prevailing professional norms," it is hard to see how those norms can support the duty the Court today imposes on defense counsel.  Because many criminal defense attorneys have little understanding of immigration law, see ante, at 11, it should follow that a criminal defense attorney who refrains from providing immigration advice does not violate prevailing professional norms.  But the Court's opinion would not just require defense counsel to warn the client of a general risk of removal; it would also require counsel in at least some cases, to specify what the removal consequences of a conviction would be.  See ante, at 11-12.


     The Court's new approach is particularly problematic because providing advice on whether a conviction for a particular offense will make an alien removable is often quite complex.  "Most crimes affecting immigration status are not specifically mentioned by the [Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)], but instead fall under a broad category of crimes, such as crimes involving moral turpitude or aggravated felonies."  M. Garcia & L. Eig, CRS Report for Congress, Immigration Consequences of Criminal Activity (Sept. 20, 2006) (summary) (emphasis in original).  As has been widely acknowledged, determining whether a particular crime is an "aggravated felony" or a "crime involving moral turpitude [(CIMT)]" is not an easy task.  See R. McWhirter, ABA, The Criminal Lawyer's Guide to Immigration Law: Questions and Answers 128 (2d ed. 2006) (hereinafter ABA Guidebook) ("Because of the increased complexity of aggravated felony law, this edition devotes a new [30-page] chapter to the subject"); id., §5.2, at 146 (stating that the aggravated felony list at 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) is not clear with respect to several of the listed categories, that "the term 'aggravated felonies' can include misdemeanors," and that the determination of whether a crime is an "aggravated felony" is made "even more difficult" because "several agencies and courts interpret the statute," including Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), and Federal Circuit and district courts considering immigration-law and criminal-law issues); ABA Guidebook §4.65, at 130 ("Because nothing is ever simple with immigration law, the terms 'conviction,' 'moral turpitude,' and 'single scheme of criminal misconduct' are terms of art"); id., §4.67, at 130 ("[T]he term 'moral turpitude' evades precise definition").


     Defense counsel who consults a guidebook on whether a particular crime is an "aggravated felony" will often find that the answer is not ''easily ascertained."  For example, the ABA Guidebook answers the question "Does simple possession count as an aggravated felony?" as follows: "Yes, at least in the Ninth Circuit."  §5.35, at 160 (emphasis added).  After a dizzying paragraph that attempts to explain the evolution of the Ninth Circuit's view, the ABA Guidebook continues: "Adding to the confusion, however, is that the Ninth Circuit has conflicting opinions depending on the context on whether simple drug possession constitutes an aggravated felony under 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)."  Id., §5.35, at 161 (citing cases distinguishing between whether a simple possession offense is an aggravated felony "for immigration purposes" or for "sentencing purposes").  The ABA Guidebook then proceeds to explain that "attempted possession," id., §5.36, at 161 (emphasis added), of a controlled substance is an aggravated felony, while "[c]onviction under the federal accessory after the fact statute is probably not an aggravated felony, but a conviction for accessory after the fact to the manufacture of methamphetamine is an aggravated felony," id., §537, at 161 (emphasis added).  Conspiracy or attempt to commit drug trafficking are aggravated felonies, but "[s]olicitation is not a drug-trafficking offense because a generic solicitation offense is not an offense related to a controlled substance and therefore not an aggravated felony."  Id., §5.41, at 162.


     Determining whether a particular crime is one involving moral turpitude is no easier.  See id., at 134 ("Writing bad checks may or may not be a CIMT" (emphasis added)); ibid. ("[R]eckless assault coupled with an element of injury, but not serious injury, is probably not a CIMT" (emphasis added)); id., at 135 (misdemeanor driving under the influence is generally not a CIMT, but may be a CIMT if the DUI results in injury or if the driver knew that his license had been suspended or revoked); id., at 136 ("If there is no element of actual injury, the endangerment offense may not be a CIMT" (emphasis added)); ibid. ("Whether [a child abuse] conviction involves moral turpitude may depend on the subsection under which the individual is convicted.  Child abuse done with criminal negligence probably is not a CIMT" (emphasis added)).


     Many other terms of the INA are similarly ambiguous or may be confusing to practitioners not versed in the intricacies of immigration law.  To take just a few examples, it may be hard, in some cases, for defense counsel even to determine whether a client is an alien,1 or whether a particular state disposition will result in a "conviction" for purposes of federal immigration law.2  The task of offering advice about the immigration consequences of a criminal conviction is further complicated by other problems, including significant variations among Circuit interpretations of federal immigration statutes; the frequency with which immigration law changes; different rules governing the immigration consequences of juvenile, first-offender, and foreign convictions; and the relationship between the "length and type of sentence" and the determination "whether [an alien] is subject to removal, eligible for relief from removal, or qualified to become a naturalized citizen," Immigration Law and Crimes §2:1, at 2-2 to 2-3.


     In short, the professional organizations and guidebooks on which the Court so heavily relies are right to say that "nothing is ever simple with immigration law"--including the determination whether immigration law clearly makes a particular offense removable.  ABA Guidebook §4.65, at 130; Immigration Law and Crimes §2:1.  I therefore cannot agree with the Court's apparent view that the Sixth Amendment requires criminal defense attorneys to provide immigration advice.


     The Court tries to downplay the severity of the burden it imposes on defense counsel by suggesting that the scope of counsel's duty to offer advice concerning deportation consequences may turn on how hard it is to determine those consequences.  Where "the terms of the relevant immigration statute are succinct, clear, and explicit in defining the removal consequence[s]" of a conviction, the Court says, counsel has an affirmative duty to advise the client that he will be subject to deportation as a result of the plea.  Ante, at 11.  But "[w]hen the law is not succinct and straightforward ... , a criminal defense attorney need do no more than advise a noncitizen client that pending criminal charges may carry a risk of adverse immigration  consequences."  Ante, at 11-12.  This approach is problematic for at least four reasons.


     First, it will not always be easy to tell whether a particular statutory provision is "succinct, clear, and explicit."  How can an attorney who lacks general immigration law expertise be sure that a seemingly clear statutory provision actually means what it seems to say when read in isolation?  What if the application of the provision to a particular case is not clear but a cursory examination of case law or administrative decisions would provide a definitive answer?  See Immigration Law and Crimes §2:1, at 2-2 ("Unfortunately, a practitioner or respondent cannot tell easily whether a conviction is for a removable offense... .  [T]he cautious practitioner or apprehensive respondent will not know conclusively the future immigration consequences of a guilty plea").


     Second, if defense counsel must provide advice regarding only one of the many collateral consequences of a criminal conviction, many defendants are likely to be misled.  To take just one example, a conviction for a particular offense may render an alien excludable but not removable.  If an alien charged with such an offense is advised only that pleading guilty to such an offense will not result in removal, the alien may be induced to enter a guilty plea without realizing that a consequence of the plea is that the alien will be unable to reenter the United States if the alien returns to his or her home country for any reason, such as to visit an elderly parent or to attend a funeral.  See ABA Guidebook §4.14, at 111 ("Often the alien is both excludable and removable.  At times, however, the lists are different.  Thus, the oddity of an alien that is inadmissible but not deportable.  This alien should not leave the United States because the government will not let him back in" (emphasis in original)).  Incomplete legal advice may be worse than no advice at all because it may mislead and may dissuade the client from seeking advice from a more knowledgeable source.


     Third, the Court's rigid constitutional rule could inadvertently head off more promising ways of addressing the underlying problem--such as statutory or administrative reforms requiring trial judges to inform a defendant on the record that a guilty plea may carry adverse immigration consequences.  As amici point out, "28 states and the District of Columbia have already adopted rules, plea forms, or statutes requiring courts to advise criminal defendants of the possible immigration consequences of their pleas."  Brief for State of Louisiana et al. 25; accord, Chin & Holmes 708 ("A growing number of states require advice about deportation by statute or court rule").  A nonconstitutional rule requiring trial judges to inform defendants on the record of the risk of adverse immigration consequences can ensure that a defendant receives needed information without putting a large number of criminal convictions at risk; and because such a warning would be given on the record, courts would not later have to determine whether the defendant was misrepresenting the advice of counsel.  Likewise, flexible statutory procedures for withdrawing guilty pleas might give courts appropriate discretion to determine whether the interests of justice would be served by allowing a particular defendant to withdraw a plea entered into on the basis of incomplete information.  Cf. United States v. Russell, 686 F. 2d 35, 39-40 (CADC 1982) (explaining that a district court's discretion to set aside a guilty plea under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure should be guided by, among other considerations, "the possible existence of prejudice to the government's case as a result of the defendant's untimely request to stand trial" and "the strength of the defendant's reason for withdrawing the plea, including whether the defendant asserts his innocence of the charge").


     Fourth, the Court's decision marks a major upheaval in Sixth Amendment law.  This Court decided Strickland in 1984, but the majority does not cite a single case, from this or any other federal court, holding that criminal defense counsel's failure to provide advice concerning the removal consequences of a criminal conviction violates a defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel.  As noted above, the Court's view has been rejected by every Federal Court of Appeals to have considered the issue thus far.  See, e.g., Gonzalez, 202 F. 3d, at 28; Banda, 1 F. 3d, at 355; Chin & Holmes 697, 699.  The majority appropriately acknowledges that the lower courts are "now quite experienced with applying Strickland," ante, at 14, but it casually dismisses the longstanding and unanimous position of the lower federal courts with respect to the scope of criminal defense counsel's duty to advise on collateral consequences.


     The majority seeks to downplay its dramatic expansion of the scope of criminal defense counsel's duties under the Sixth Amendment by claiming that this Court in Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), similarly "applied Strickland to a claim that counsel had failed to advise the client regarding his parole eligibility before he pleaded guilty." Ante, at 14.  That characterization of Hill obscures much more than it reveals.  The issue in Hill was whether a criminal defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel was violated where counsel misinformed the client about his eligibility for parole.  The Court found it "unnecessary to determine whether there may be circumstances under which erroneous advice by counsel as to parole eligibility may be deemed constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel, because in the present case we conclude that petitioner's allegations are insufficient to satisfy the Strickland v. Washington requirement of 'prejudice.' "  474 U. S., at 60.  Given that Hill expressly and unambiguously refused to decide whether criminal defense counsel must avoid misinforming his or her client as to one consequence of a criminal conviction (parole eligibility), that case plainly provides no support whatsoever for the proposition that counsel must affirmatively advise his or her client as to another collateral consequence (removal).  By the Court's strange logic, Hill would support its decision here even if the Court had held that misadvice concerning parole eligibility does not make counsel's performance objectively unreasonable.  After all, the Court still would have "applied Strickland" to the facts of the case at hand.
II

     While mastery of immigration law is not required by Strickland, several considerations support the conclusion that affirmative misadvice regarding the removal consequences of a conviction may constitute ineffective assistance.
     First, a rule prohibiting affirmative misadvice regarding a matter as crucial to the defendant's plea decision as deportation appears faithful to the scope and nature of the Sixth Amendment duty this Court has recognized in its past cases.  In particular, we have explained that "a guilty plea cannot be attacked as based on inadequate legal advice unless counsel was not 'a reasonably competent attorney' and the advice was not 'within the range of competence demanded of attorneys in criminal cases.' "  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 687 (quoting McMann v. Richardson, 397 U. S. 759, 770, 771 (1970); emphasis added).  As the Court appears to acknowledge, thorough understanding of the intricacies of immigration law is not "within the range of competence demanded of attorneys in criminal cases."  See ante, at 11 ("Immigration law can be complex, and it is a legal specialty of its own.  Some members of the bar who represent clients facing criminal charges, in either state or federal court or both, may not be well versed in it").  By contrast, reasonably competent attorneys should know that it is not appropriate or responsible to hold themselves out as authorities on a difficult and complicated subject matter with which they are not familiar.  Candor concerning the limits of one's professional expertise, in other words, is within the range of duties reasonably expected of defense attorneys in criminal cases.  As the dissenting judge on the Kentucky Supreme Court put it, "I do not believe it is too much of a burden to place on our defense bar the duty to say, 'I do not know.' "  253 S. W. 3d 482, 485 (2008).


     Second, incompetent advice distorts the defendant's decisionmaking process and seems to call the fairness and integrity of the criminal proceeding itself into question.  See Strickland, 466 U. S., at 686 ("In giving meaning to the requirement [of effective assistance of counsel], we must take its purpose--to ensure a fair trial--as the guide").  When a defendant opts to plead guilty without definitive information concerning the likely effects of the plea, the defendant can fairly be said to assume the risk that the conviction may carry indirect consequences of which he or she is not aware.  That is not the case when a defendant bases the decision to plead guilty on counsel's express misrepresentation that the defendant will not be removable.  In the latter case, it seems hard to say that the plea was entered with the advice of constitutionally competent counsel--or that it embodies a voluntary and intelligent decision to forsake constitutional rights.  See ibid. ("The benchmark for judging any claim of ineffectiveness must be whether counsel's conduct so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just result").


     Third, a rule prohibiting unreasonable misadvice regarding exceptionally important collateral matters would not deter or interfere with ongoing political and administrative efforts to devise fair and reasonable solutions to the difficult problem posed by defendants who plead guilty without knowing of certain important collateral consequences.


     Finally, the conclusion that affirmative misadvice regarding the removal consequences of a conviction can give rise to ineffective assistance would, unlike the Court's approach, not require any upheaval in the law.  As the Solicitor General points out, "[t]he vast majority of the lower courts considering claims of ineffective assistance in the plea context have [distinguished] between defense counsel who remain silent and defense counsel who give affirmative misadvice."  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8 (citing cases).  At least three Courts of Appeals have held that affirmative misadvice on immigration matters can give rise to ineffective assistance of counsel, at least in some circumstances.3  And several other Circuits have held that affirmative misadvice concerning nonimmigration consequences of a conviction can violate the Sixth Amendment even if those consequences might be deemed "collateral."4  By contrast, it appears that no court of appeals holds that affirmative misadvice concerning collateral consequences in general and removal in particular can never give rise to ineffective assistance.  In short, the considered and thus far unanimous view of the lower federal courts charged with administering Strickland clearly supports the conclusion that that Kentucky Supreme Court's position goes too far.


     In concluding that affirmative misadvice regarding the removal consequences of a criminal conviction may constitute ineffective assistance, I do not mean to suggest that the Sixth Amendment does no more than require defense counsel to avoid misinformation.  When a criminal defense attorney is aware that a client is an alien, the attorney should advise the client that a criminal conviction may have adverse consequences under the immigration laws and that the client should consult an immigration specialist if the client wants advice on that subject.  By putting the client on notice of the danger of removal, such advice would significantly reduce the chance that the client would plead guilty under a mistaken premise.
III

     In sum, a criminal defense attorney should not be required to provide advice on immigration law, a complex specialty that generally lies outside the scope of a criminal defense attorney's expertise.  On the other hand, any competent criminal defense attorney should appreciate the extraordinary importance that the risk of removal might have in the client's determination whether to enter a guilty plea.  Accordingly, unreasonable and incorrect information concerning the risk of removal can give rise to an ineffectiveness claim.  In addition, silence alone is not enough to satisfy counsel's duty to assist the client.  Instead, an alien defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel is satisfied if defense counsel advises the client that a conviction may have immigration consequences, that immigration law is a specialized field, that the attorney is not an immigration lawyer, and that the client should consult an immigration specialist if the client wants advice on that subject.


JOSE PADILLA, PETITIONER v. KENTUCKY
on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of kentucky
[March 31, 2010]

     Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.

     In the best of all possible worlds, criminal defendants contemplating a guilty plea ought to be advised of all serious collateral consequences of conviction, and surely ought not to be misadvised.  The Constitution, however, is not an all-purpose tool for judicial construction of a perfect world; and when we ignore its text in order to make it that, we often find ourselves swinging a sledge where a tack hammer is needed.


     The Sixth Amendment guarantees the accused a lawyer "for his defense" against a "criminal prosecutio[n]"--not for sound advice about the collateral consequences of conviction.  For that reason, and for the practical reasons set forth in Part I of Justice Alito's concurrence, I dissent from the Court's conclusion that the Sixth Amendment requires counsel to provide accurate advice concerning the potential removal consequences of a guilty plea.  For the same reasons, but unlike the concurrence, I do not believe that affirmative misadvice about those consequences renders an attorney's assistance in defending against the prosecution constitutionally inadequate; or that the Sixth Amendment requires counsel to warn immigrant defendants that a conviction may render them removable.  Statutory provisions can remedy these concerns in a more targeted fashion, and without producing permanent, and legislatively irreparable, overkill.
*  *  *

     The Sixth Amendment as originally understood and ratified meant only that a defendant had a right to employ counsel, or to use volunteered services of counsel.  See, United States v. Van Duzee, 140 U. S. 169, 173 (1891); W. Beaney, Right to Counsel in American Courts 21, 28-29 (1955).  We have held, however, that the Sixth Amendment requires the provision of counsel to indigent defendants at government expense, Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335, 344-345 (1963), and that the right to "the assistance of counsel" includes the right to effective assistance, Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 686 (1984).  Even assuming the validity of these holdings, I reject the significant further extension that the Court, and to a lesser extent the concurrence, would create.  We have until today at least retained the Sixth Amendment's textual limitation to criminal prosecutions.  "[W]e have held that 'defence' means defense at trial, not defense in relation to other objectives that may be important to the accused."  Rothgery v. Gillespie County, 554 U. S. ___, ___ (2008) (Alito, J., concurring) (slip op., at 4) (summarizing cases).  We have limited the Sixth Amendment to legal advice directly related to defense against prosecution of the charged offense--advice at trial, of course, but also advice at postindictment interrogations and lineups, Massiah v. United States, 377 U. S. 201, 205-206 (1964); United States v. Wade, 388 U. S. 218, 236-238 (1967), and in general advice at all phases of the prosecution where the defendant would be at a disadvantage when pitted alone against the legally trained agents of the state, see Moran v. Burbine, 475 U. S. 412, 430 (1986).  Not only have we not required advice of counsel regarding consequences collateral to prosecution, we have not even required counsel appointed to defend against one prosecution to be present when the defendant is interrogated in connection with another possible prosecution arising from the same event.  Texas v. Cobb, 532 U. S. 162, 164 (2001).
     There is no basis in text or in principle to extend the constitutionally required advice regarding guilty pleas beyond those matters germane to the criminal prosecution at hand--to wit, the sentence that the plea will produce, the higher sentence that conviction after trial might entail, and the chances of such a conviction.  Such matters fall within "the range of competence demanded of attorneys in criminal cases," McMann v. Richardson, 397 U. S. 759, 771 (1970).  See id., at 769-770 (describing the matters counsel and client must consider in connection with a contemplated guilty plea).  We have never held, as the logic of the Court's opinion assumes, that once counsel is appointed all professional responsibilities of counsel--even those extending beyond defense against the prosecution--become constitutional commands.  Cf. Cobb, supra, at 171, n. 2; Moran, supra, at 430.  Because the subject of the misadvice here was not the prosecution for which Jose Padilla was entitled to effective assistance of counsel, the Sixth Amendment has no application.


     Adding to counsel's duties an obligation to advise about a conviction's collateral consequences has no logical stopping-point.  As the concurrence observes,
"[A] criminal convictio[n] can carry a wide variety of consequences other than conviction and sentencing, including civil commitment, civil forfeiture, the loss of the right to vote, disqualification from public benefits, ineligibility to possess firearms, dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces, and loss of business or professional licenses. . . . All of those consequences are 'serious,' ... ."  Ante, at 2-3 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment).

But it seems to me that the concurrence suffers from the same defect.  The same indeterminacy, the same inability to know what areas of advice are relevant, attaches to misadvice.  And the concurrence's suggestion that counsel must warn defendants of potential removal consequences, see ante, at 14-15--what would come to be known as the "Padilla warning"--cannot be limited to those consequences except by judicial caprice.  It is difficult to believe that the warning requirement would not be extended, for example, to the risk of heightened sentences in later federal prosecutions pursuant to the Armed Career Criminal Act, 18 U. S. C. §924(e).  We could expect years of elaboration upon these new issues in the lower courts, prompted by the defense bar's devising of ever-expanding categories of plea-invalidating misadvice and failures to warn--not to mention innumerable evidentiary hearings to determine whether misadvice really occurred or whether the warning was really given.


     The concurrence's treatment of misadvice seems driven by concern about the voluntariness of Padilla's guilty plea.  See ante, at 12.  But that concern properly relates to the Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, not to the Sixth Amendment.  See McCarthy v. United States, 394 U. S. 459, 466 (1969); Brady v. United States, 397 U. S. 742, 748 (1970).  Padilla has not argued before us that his guilty plea was not knowing and voluntary.  If that is, however, the true substance of his claim (and if he has properly preserved it) the state court can address it on remand.1  But we should not smuggle the claim into the Sixth Amendment.


     The Court's holding prevents legislation that could solve the problems addressed by today's opinions in a more precise and targeted fashion.  If the subject had not been constitutionalized, legislation could specify which categories of misadvice about matters ancillary to the prosecution invalidate plea agreements, what collateral consequences counsel must bring to a defendant's attention, and what warnings must be given.2  Moreover, legislation could provide consequences for the misadvice, nonadvice, or failure to warn, other than nullification of a criminal conviction after the witnesses and evidence needed for retrial have disappeared.  Federal immigration law might provide, for example, that the near-automatic removal which follows from certain criminal convictions will not apply where the conviction rested upon a guilty plea induced by counsel's misadvice regarding removal consequences.  Or legislation might put the government to a choice in such circumstances: Either retry the defendant or forgo the removal.  But all that has been precluded in favor of today's sledge hammer.


     In sum, the Sixth Amendment guarantees adequate assistance of counsel in defending against a pending criminal prosecution.  We should limit both the constitutional obligation to provide advice and the consequences of bad advice to that well defined area.

FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 Padilla's crime, like virtually every drug offense except for only the most insignificant marijuana offenses, is a deportable offense under 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2)(B)(i). 
Footnote 2 In 1907, Congress expanded the class of excluded persons to include individuals who "admit" to having committed a crime of moral turpitude.  Act of Feb. 20, 1907, ch. 1134, 34 Stat. 899.
Footnote 3 As enacted, the statute provided:


"That the provision of this section respecting the deportation of aliens convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude shall not apply to one who has been pardoned, nor shall such deportation be made or directed if the court, or judge thereof, sentencing such alien for such crime shall, at the time of imposing judgment or passing sentence or within thirty days thereafter, ... make a recommendation to the Secretary of Labor that such alien shall not be deported in pursuance of this Act."  1917 Act, 39 Stat. 889-890.


This provision was codified in 8 U. S. C. §1251(b) (1994 ed.) (transferred to §1227 (2006 ed. )).  The judge's nondeportation recommendation was binding on the Secretary of Labor and, later, the Attorney General after control of immigration removal matters was transferred from the former to the latter.  See Janvier v. United States, 793 F. 2d 449, 452 (CA2 1986).
Footnote 4 Congress first identified narcotics offenses as a special category of crimes triggering deportation in the 1922 Narcotic Drug Act.  Act of May 26, 1922, ch. 202, 42 Stat. 596.  After the 1922 Act took effect, there was some initial confusion over whether a narcotics offense also had to be a crime of moral turpitude for an individual to be deportable.  See Weedin v. Moy Fat, 8 F. 2d 488, 489 (CA9 1925) (holding that an individual who committed narcotics offense was not deportable because offense did not involve moral turpitude).  However, lower courts eventually agreed that the narcotics offense provision was "special," Chung Que Fong v. Nagle, 15 F. 2d 789, 790 (CA9 1926); thus, a narcotics offense did not need also to be a crime of moral turpitude (or to satisfy other requirements of the 1917 Act) to trigger deportation.  See United States ex rel. Grimaldi  v. Ebey, 12 F. 2d 922, 923 (CA7 1926); Todaro v. Munster, 62 F. 2d 963, 964 (CA10 1933).
Footnote 5 The Act separately codified the moral turpitude offense provision and the narcotics offense provision within 8 U. S. C. §1251(a) (1994 ed.) under subsections (a)(4) and (a)(11), respectively.  See 66 Stat. 201, 204, 206.  The JRAD procedure, codified in 8 U. S. C. §1251(b) (1994 ed.), applied only to the "provisions of subsection (a)(4)," the crimes-of-moral-turpitude provision.  66 Stat. 208; see United States v. O'Rourke, 213 F. 2d 759, 762 (CA8 1954) (recognizing that, under the 1952 Act, narcotics offenses were no longer eligible for JRADs).
Footnote 6 The changes to our immigration law have also involved a change in nomenclature; the statutory text now uses the term "removal" rather than "deportation."  See Calcano-Martinez v. INS, 533 U. S. 348, 350, n. 1 (2001).
Footnote 7 See Brief for Asian American Justice Center et al. as Amici Curiae 12-27 (providing real-world examples).
Footnote 8 There is some disagreement among the courts over how to distinguish between direct and collateral consequences.  See Roberts, Ignorance is Effectively Bliss: Collateral Consequences, Silence, and Misinformation in the Guilty-Plea Process, 95 Iowa L. Rev. 119, 124, n. 15 (2009).  The disagreement over how to apply the direct/collateral distinction has no bearing on the disposition of this case because, as even Justice Alito agrees, counsel must, at the very least, advise a noncitizen "defendant that a criminal conviction may have adverse immigration consequences," post, at 1 (opinion concurring in judgment).  See also post, at 14 ("I do not mean to suggest that the Sixth Amendment does no more than require defense counsel to avoid misinformation").  In his concurring opinion, Justice Alito has thus departed from the strict rule applied by the Supreme Court of Kentucky and in the two federal cases that he cites, post, at 2.
Footnote 9 See, e.g., United States v. Gonzalez, 202 F. 3d 20 (CA1 2000); United States v. Del Rosario, 902 F. 2d 55 (CADC 1990); United States v. Yearwood, 863 F. 2d 6 (CA4 1988); Santos-Sanchez v. United States, 548 F. 3d 327 (CA5 2008); Broomes v. Ashcroft, 358 F. 3d 1251 (CA10 2004); United States v. Campbell, 778 F. 2d 764 (CA11 1985); Oyekoya v. State, 558 So. 2d 990 (Ala. Ct. Crim. App. 1989); State v. Rosas, 183 Ariz. 421, 904 P. 2d 1245 (App. 1995); State v. Montalban, 2000-2739 (La. 2/26/02), 810 So. 2d 1106; Commonwealth v. Frometa, 520 Pa. 552, 555 A. 2d 92 (1989).
Footnote 10 As Justice Alito explains at length, deportation consequences are often unclear.  Lack of clarity in the law, however, does not obviate the need for counsel to say something about the possibility of deportation, even though it will affect the scope and nature of counsel's advice.
Footnote 11 As the Commonwealth conceded at oral argument, were a defendant's lawyer to know that a particular offense would result in the client's deportation and that, upon deportation, the client and his family might well be killed due to circumstances in the client's home country, any decent attorney would inform the client of the consequences of his plea.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 37-38.  We think the same result should follow when the stakes are not life and death but merely "banishment or exile," Delgadillo v. Carmichael, 332 U. S. 388, 390-391 (1947).
Footnote 12 However, we concluded that, even though Strickland applied to petitioner's claim, he had not sufficiently alleged prejudice to satisfy Strickland's second prong.  Hill, 474 U. S., at 59-60.  This disposition further underscores the fact that it is often quite difficult for petitioners who have acknowledged their guilt to satisfy Strickland's prejudice prong. 


     Justice Alito believes that the Court misreads Hill, post, at 10-11.  In Hill, the Court recognized--for the first time--that Strickland applies to advice respecting a guilty plea.  474 U. S., at 58 ("We hold, therefore, that the two-part Strickland v. Washington test applies to challenges to guilty pleas based on ineffective assistance of counsel").  It is true that Hill does not control the question before us.  But its import is nevertheless clear.  Whether Strickland applies to Padilla's claim follows from Hill, regardless of the fact that the Hill Court did not resolve the particular question respecting misadvice that was before it. 
Footnote 13 See Dept. of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Sourcebook of Criminal Justice Statistics 2003, p. 418 (31st ed. 2005) (Table 5.17) (only approximately 5%, or 8,612 out of 68,533, of federal criminal prosecutions go to trial); id., at 450 (Table 5.46) (only approximately 5% of all state felony criminal prosecutions go to trial).
Footnote 14 See V. Flango, National Center for State Courts, Habeas Corpus in State and Federal Courts 36-38 (1994) (demonstrating that 5% of defendants whose conviction was the result of a trial account for approximately 70% of the habeas petitions filed).
Footnote 15      To this end, we find it significant that the plea form currently used in Kentucky courts provides notice of possible immigration consequences.  Ky. Admin. Office of Courts, Motion to Enter Guilty Plea, Form AOC-491 (Rev. 2/2003), http://courts.ky.gov/NR/rdonlyres/ 55E1F54E-ED5C-4A30-B1D5-4C43C7ADD63C/0/491.pdf (as visited Mar. 29, 2010, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).  Further, many States require trial courts to advise defendants of possible immigration consequences.  See, e.g., Alaska Rule Crim. Proc. 11(c)(3)(C) (2009-2010); Cal. Penal Code Ann. §1016.5 (West 2008); Conn. Gen. Stat. §54-1j (2009); D. C. Code §16-713 (2001); Fla. Rule Crim. Proc. 3.172(c)(8) (Supp. 2010); Ga. Code Ann. §17-7-93(c) (1997); Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. §802E-2 (2007); Iowa Rule Crim. Proc. 2.8(2)(b)(3) (Supp. 2009); Md. Rule 4-242 (Lexis 2009); Mass. Gen. Laws, ch. 278, §29D (2009); Minn. Rule Crim. Proc. 15.01 (2009); Mont. Code Ann. §46-12-210 (2009); N. M. Rule Crim. Form 9-406 (2009); N. Y. Crim. Proc. Law Ann. §220.50(7) (West Supp. 2009); N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §15A-1022 (Lexis 2007); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §2943.031 (West 2006); Ore. Rev. Stat. §135.385 (2007); R. I. Gen. Laws §12-12-22 (Lexis Supp. 2008); Tex. Code. Ann. Crim. Proc., Art. 26.13(a)(4) (Vernon Supp. 2009); Vt. Stat. Ann., Tit. 13, §6565(c)(1) (Supp. 2009); Wash. Rev. Code §10.40.200 (2008); Wis. Stat. §971.08 (2005-2006). 
FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 Citizens are not deportable, but "[q]uestions of citizenship are not always simple."  ABA Guidebook §4.20, at 113 (explaining that U.S. citizenship conferred by blood is " 'derivative,' " and that "[d]erivative citizenship depends on a number of confusing factors, including whether the citizen parent was the mother or father, the immigration laws in effect at the time of the parents' and/or defendant's birth, and the parents' marital status").
Footnote 2 "A disposition that is not a 'conviction,' under state law may still be a 'conviction' for immigration purposes."  Id., §4.32, at 117 (citing Matter of Salazar, 23 I. & N. Dec. 223, 231 (BIA 2002) (en banc)).  For example, state law may define the term "conviction" not to include a deferred adjudication, but such an adjudication would be deemed a conviction for purposes of federal immigration law.  See ABA Guidebook §4.37; accord, D. Kesselbrenner & L. Rosenberg, Immigration Law and Crimes §2:1, p. 2-2 (2008) (hereinafter Immigration Law and Crimes) ("A practitioner or respondent will not even know whether the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) will treat a particular state disposition as a conviction for immigration purposes.  In fact, the [BIA] treats certain state criminal dispositions as convictions even though the state treats the same disposition as a dismissal").
Footnote 3 See United States v. Kwan, 407 F. 3d 1005, 1015-1017 (CA9 2005); United States v. Couto, 311 F. 3d 179, 188 (CA2 2002); Downs-Morgan v. United States, 765 F. 2d 1534, 1540-1541 (CA11 1985) (limiting holding to the facts of the case); see also Santos-Sanchez v. United States, 548 F. 3d 327, 333-334 (CA5 2008) (concluding that counsel's advice was not objectively unreasonable where counsel did not purport to answer questions about immigration law, did not claim any expertise in immigration law, and simply warned of "possible" deportation consequence; use of the word "possible" was not an affirmative misrepresentation, even though it could indicate that deportation was not a certain consequence).
Footnote 4 See Hill v. Lockhart, 894 F. 2d 1009, 1010 (CA8 1990) (en banc) ("[T]he erroneous parole-eligibility advice given to Mr. Hill was ineffective assistance of counsel under Strickland v. Washington"); Sparks v. Sowders, 852 F. 2d 882, 885 (CA6 1988) ("[G]ross misadvice concerning parole eligibility can amount to ineffective assistance of counsel"); id., at 886 (Kennedy, J., concurring) ("When the maximum possible exposure is overstated, the defendant might well be influenced to accept a plea agreement he would otherwise reject"); Strader v. Garrison, 611 F. 2d 61, 65 (CA4 1979) ("[T]hough parole eligibility dates are collateral consequences of the entry of a guilty plea of which a defendant need not be informed if he does not inquire, when he is grossly misinformed about it by his lawyer, and relies upon that misinformation, he is deprived of his constitutional right to counsel").
FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 I do not mean to suggest that the Due Process Clause would surely provide relief.  We have indicated that awareness of "direct consequences" suffices for the validity of a guilty plea.  See Brady, 397 U. S., at 755 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And the required colloquy between a federal district court and a defendant required by Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(b) (formerly Rule 11(c)), which we have said approximates the due process requirements for a valid plea, see Libretti v. United States, 516 U. S. 29, 49-50 (1995), does not mention collateral consequences.  Whatever the outcome, however, the effect of misadvice regarding such consequences upon the validity of a guilty plea should be analyzed under the Due Process Clause.
Footnote 2 As the Court's opinion notes, ante, at 16-17, n. 15, many States--including Kentucky--already require that criminal defendants be warned of potential removal consequences.





United States Supreme Court
KUCANA v. HOLDER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, (2010)
No. 08-911
Argued: November 10, 2009    Decided: January 20, 2010


The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA) amended the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA or Act), codifying certain rules, earlier prescribed by the Attorney General, that govern the process of reopening removal proceedings.  IIRIRA also added a provision stating that no court has jurisdiction to review any action of the Attorney General "the authority for which is specified under this subchapter to be in the discretion of the Attorney General."  8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii).  A regulation, amended just months before IIRIRA's enactment, provides that "[t]he decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen ... is within the discretion of the [Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA)]," 8 CFR §1003.2(a).  As adjudicator in immigration cases, the BIA exercises authority delegated by the Attorney General.


          Petitioner Kucana moved to reopen his removal proceedings, asserting new evidence in support of his plea for asylum.  An Immigration Judge denied the motion, and the BIA sustained that ruling.  The Seventh Circuit concluded that it lacked jurisdiction to review the administrative determination, holding that §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) bars judicial review not only of administrative decisions made discretionary by statute, but also of those made discretionary by regulation.
Held: Section 1252(a)(2)(B)'s proscription of judicial review applies only to Attorney General determinations made discretionary by statute, not to determinations declared discretionary by the Attorney General himself through regulation.  Pp. 6-18.
     (a) The motion to reopen is an "important safeguard" intended "to ensure a proper and lawful disposition" of immigration proceedings.  Dada v. Mukasey, 554 U. S. 1, ___.  Federal-court review of administrative decisions denying motions to reopen removal proceedings dates back to at least 1916, with the courts employing a deferential abuse-of-discretion standard of review.  While the Attorney General's regulation in point, 8 CFR §1003.2(a), places the reopening decision within the BIA's discretion, the statute does not codify that prescription or otherwise "specif[y]" that such decisions are in the Attorney General's discretion.  Pp. 6-7.


     (b) Section 1252(a)(2)(B) does not proscribe judicial review of denials of motions to reopen.  Pp. 8-16.


          (1) The amicus defending the Seventh Circuit's judgment urges that regulations suffice to trigger §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s proscription.  She comprehends "under" in "authority ... specified under this subchapter" to mean, e.g., "pursuant to," "subordinate to."  Administrative regulations count for §1252(a)(2)(B) purposes, she submits, because they are issued "pursuant to," and are measures "subordinate to," the legislation they serve to implement.  On that reading, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) would bar judicial review of any decision that an executive regulation places within the BIA's discretion, including the decision to deny a motion to reopen.  The parties, on the other hand, read the statutory language to mean "specified in," or "specified by," the subchapter.  On their reading, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) precludes judicial review only when the statute itself specifies the discretionary character of the Attorney General's authority.  Pp. 8-9.


          (2) The word "under" "has many dictionary definitions and must draw its meaning from its context."  Ardestani v. INS, 502 U. S. 129, 135.  Examining the provision at issue in statutory context, the parties' position stands on firmer ground.  Section 1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) is far from IIRIRA's only jurisdictional limitation.  It is sandwiched between two subsections, §1252(a)(2)(A) and §1252(a)(2)(C), both dependent on statutory provisions, not on any regulation, to define their scope.  Given §1252(a)(2)(B)'s statutory placement, one would expect that it, too, would cover statutory provisions alone.  Pp. 9-11.


          (3) Section 1252(a)(2)(B)(i) places within the no-judicial-review category "any judgment regarding the granting of relief under section 1182(h), 1182(i), 1229b, 1229c, or 1255."  Each of the referenced statutory provisions addresses a different form of discretionary relief from removal and contains language indicating that the decision is entrusted to the Attorney General's discretion.  Clause (i) does not refer to any regulatory provision.  The proximity of clause (i) and the clause (ii) catchall, and the words linking them--"any other decision"--suggests that Congress had in mind decisions of the same genre, i.e., those made discretionary by legislation.  Read harmoniously, both clauses convey that Congress barred court review of discretionary decisions only when Congress itself set out the Attorney General's discretionary authority in the statute.  Pp. 11-12.


          (4) Also significant is the character of the decisions insulated from judicial review in §1252(a)(2)(B)(i).  The listed determinations are substantive decisions the Executive makes involving whether or not aliens can stay in the country.  Other decisions specified by statute "to be in the discretion of the Attorney General," and therefore shielded from court oversight by §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), are of a like kind.  See, e.g., §1157(c)(1).  Decisions on reopening motions made discretionary by regulation, in contrast, are adjunct rulings.  A court decision reversing the denial of a motion to reopen does not direct the Executive to afford the alien substantive relief; ordinarily, it touches and concerns only the question whether the alien's claims have been accorded a reasonable hearing.  Had Congress wanted the jurisdictional bar to encompass decisions specified as discretionary by regulation as well as by statute, moreover, Congress could easily have said so, as it did in provisions enacted simultaneously with §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii).  See, e.g., IIRIRA, §213, 110 Stat. 3009-572.  Pp. 12-14.


          (5) The history of the relevant statutory provisions corroborates this determination.  Attorney General regulations have long addressed reopening requests.  In enacting IIRIRA, Congress simultaneously codified the process for filing motions to reopen and acted to bar judicial review of a number of executive decisions regarding removal.  But Congress did not codify the regulation delegating to the BIA discretion to grant or deny reopening motions.  This legislative silence indicates that Congress left the matter where it was pre-IIRIRA: The BIA has broad discretion, conferred by the Attorney General, "to grant or deny a motion to reopen," 8 CFR §1003.2(a), but courts retain jurisdiction to review the BIA's decision.  It is unsurprising that Congress would leave in place judicial oversight of this "important [procedural] safeguard," Dada, 554 U. S., at ___, where, as here, the alien's underlying asylum claim would itself be reviewable.  The REAL ID Act of 2005, which further amended the INA by adding or reformulating provisions on asylum, protection from removal, and even judicial review, did not disturb the unbroken line of decisions upholding court review of administrative denials of motions to reopen.  Pp. 14-16.


     (c) Any lingering doubt about §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s proper interpretation would be dispelled by a familiar statutory construction principle: the presumption favoring judicial review of administrative action.  When a statute is "reasonably susceptible to divergent interpretation," this Court adopts the reading "that executive determinations generally are subject to judicial review."  Gutierrez de Martinez v. Lamagno, 515 U. S. 417, 434.  The Court has consistently applied this interpretive guide to legislation regarding immigration, and particularly to questions concerning the preservation of federal-court jurisdiction.  See, e.g., Reno v. Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S. 43, 63-64.  Because this presumption is " 'well-settled,' " ibid., the Court assumes that "Congress legislates with knowledge of" it, McNary v. Haitian Refugee Center, Inc., 498 U. S. 479, 496.  It therefore takes " ' "clear and convincing evidence" ' " to dislodge the presumption.  Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S., at 64.  There is no such evidence here.  Finally, reading §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) to apply to matters where discretion is conferred on the BIA by regulation would ignore Congress' design to retain for itself control over federal-court jurisdiction.  The Seventh Circuit's construction would free the Executive to shelter its own decisions from abuse-of-discretion appellate court review simply by issuing a regulation declaring those decisions "discretionary."  Such an extraordinary delegation of authority cannot be extracted from the statute Congress enacted.  Pp. 16-17.
533 F. 3d 534, reversed and remanded.
     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined.  Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.


AGRON KUCANA, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER,Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[January 20, 2010]

     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.

     Petitioner Agron Kucana moved to reopen his removal proceedings, asserting new evidence in support of his plea for asylum.  An Immigration Judge (IJ) denied the motion, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA or Board) sustained the IJ's ruling, and the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit concluded that it lacked jurisdiction to review the administrative determination.  For that conclusion, the court relied on a provision added to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA or Act), 66 Stat. 166, 8 U. S. C. §1101 et seq., by the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), 110 Stat. 3009-546.  The provision found dispositive by the Seventh Circuit, 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B), states that no court shall have jurisdiction to review any action of the Attorney General "the authority for which is specified under this subchapter to be in the discretion of the Attorney General," §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) (emphasis added).


     We granted certiorari to decide whether the proscription of judicial review stated in §1252(a)(2)(B) applies not only to Attorney General determinations made discretionary by statute, but also to determinations declared discretionary by the Attorney General himself through regulation.  We hold that the key words "specified under this subchapter" refer to statutory, but not to regulatory, specifications.  We so rule based on the longstanding exercise of judicial review of administrative rulings on reopening motions, the text and context of §1252(a)(2)(B), and the history of the relevant statutory provisions.  We take account, as well, of the "presumption favoring interpretations of statutes [to] allow judicial review of administrative action."  Reno v. Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S. 43, 63-64 (1993) (quoting McNary v. Haitian Refugee Center, Inc., 498 U. S. 479, 496 (1991)).  Separation-of-powers concerns, moreover, caution us against reading legislation, absent clear statement, to place in executive hands authority to remove cases from the Judiciary's domain.
I
A

     In IIRIRA, Congress for the first time codified certain rules, earlier prescribed by the Attorney General, governing the reopening process.  The amended Act instructs that reopening motions "shall state the new facts that will be proven at a hearing to be held if the motion is granted, and shall be supported by affidavits or other evidentiary material."  §1229a(c)(7)(B).  Congress also prescribed that "the motion to reopen shall be filed within 90 days of the date of entry of a final administrative order of removal."  §1229a(c)(7)(C)(i).  Among matters excepted from the 90-day limitation are motions to reopen asylum applications because of changed conditions in the country of nationality or removal.  §1229a(c)(7)(C)(ii).
     Section 1252(a)(2), captioned "Matters not subject to judicial review," contains the provision on which this case turns.  Subparagraph (B) of that paragraph, headed "Denials of discretionary relief," states:
     "Notwithstanding any other provision of law (statutory or nonstatutory), ... except as provided in subparagraph (D),[1] and regardless of whether the judgment, decision, or action is made in removal proceedings, no court shall have jurisdiction to review--


     "(i) any judgment regarding the granting of relief under section 1182(h), 1182(i), 1229b, 1229c, or 1255 of this title,[2] or


     "(ii) any other decision or action of the Attorney General ... the authority for which is specified under this subchapter[3] to be in the discretion of the Attorney General ... , other than the granting of relief under section 1158(a) of this title."4

A regulation, amended in 1996, just months before Congress enacted IIRIRA, 61 Fed. Reg. 18904, Pt. 3, §3.2(a), states that "[t]he decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen ... is within the discretion of the Board."  8 CFR §1003.2(a) (2009).  As adjudicator in immigration cases, the Board exercises authority delegated by the Attorney General.  See 8 U. S. C. §1103(g)(2); 8 CFR §1003.1.  See also 8 CFR §1003.23(b)(3) (governing motions to reopen filed with an IJ).
B

     Kucana, a citizen of Albania, entered the United States on a business visa in 1995 and remained after the visa expired.  Alleging that he would be persecuted based on his political beliefs if returned to Albania, Kucana applied for asylum and withholding of removal in 1996.  An IJ determined that Kucana was removable and scheduled a hearing to evaluate his eligibility for asylum.  When Kucana failed to appear for the hearing, the IJ immediately ordered his removal in absentia.  Kucana filed a motion to reopen, explaining that he had missed his hearing because he had overslept.  The IJ denied the motion, and the BIA affirmed in 2002.  Kucana did not seek judicial review, nor did he leave the United States.
     Kucana filed a second motion to reopen his removal proceedings in 2006, contending that conditions in Albania had worsened.5  The BIA denied relief; it concluded that conditions in Albania had actually improved since 1997.  Arguing that the BIA had abused its discretion in denying his motion, Kucana filed a petition for review in the Seventh Circuit.


     In a fractured decision, the Seventh Circuit dismissed the petition for lack of jurisdiction.  Kucana v. Mukasey, 533 F. 3d 534, 539 (2008).  The court held that 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) bars judicial review not only of administrative decisions made discretionary by statute, but also "when the agency's discretion is specified by a regulation rather than a statute."  533 F. 3d, at 536.6  In so ruling, the Seventh Circuit created a split between itself and other Courts of Appeals, all of them holding that denials of reopening motions are reviewable in court.7


     Judge Ripple concurred dubitante.  He acknowledged that the court was following an earlier decision, Ali v. Gonzales, 502 F. 3d 659 (CA7 2007),8 but "suggest[ed] that, had Congress intended to deprive th[e] court of jurisdiction ... , it would have done so explicitly, as it did in 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(i)."  533 F. 3d, at 540.  The court, he concluded, should revisit both Ali and Kucana and "chart a course ... more closely adher[ing] to the statutory language chosen and enacted by Congress."  533 F. 3d, at 540.


     Judge Cudahy dissented.  Given the absence of "specific [statutory] language entrusting the decision on a motion to reopen to the discretion of the Attorney General," ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted), he saw no impediment to the exercise of jurisdiction over Kucana's petition.  In support of his position, Judge Cudahy invoked the "strong presumption that Congress intends judicial review of administrative action."  Id., at 541 (quoting Traynor v. Turnage, 485 U. S. 535, 542 (1988)).  With four judges dissenting, the Seventh Circuit denied Kucana's petition for rehearing en banc.  See 533 F. 3d, at 541-542 (dissenting statement of Ripple, J., joined by Rovner, Wood, and Williams, JJ.).


     We granted certiorari, 556 U. S. ___ (2009), to resolve the Circuit conflict.  As it did before the Seventh Circuit, the Government agrees with Kucana that §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) does not remove federal-court jurisdiction to review the denial of a reopening motion.  We appointed Amanda C. Leiter to brief and argue the case, as amicus curiae, in support of the Seventh Circuit's judgment.  557 U. S. ___ (2009).  Ms. Leiter has ably discharged her assigned responsibilities.
II

     The motion to reopen is an "important safeguard" intended "to ensure a proper and lawful disposition" of immigration proceedings.  Dada v. Mukasey, 554 U. S. 1, ___ (2008) (slip op., at 15-16); cf. Stone v. INS, 514 U. S. 386, 401 (1995) (analogizing motions to reconsider immigration decisions to motions for relief from a judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b)).  Federal-court review of administrative decisions denying motions to reopen removal proceedings dates back to at least 1916.  See Dada, 554 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9-10) (citing cases).  This Court has ultimately reviewed reopening decisions on numerous occasions.  See, e.g., INS v. Doherty, 502 U. S. 314, 322-324 (1992); INS v. Abudu, 485 U. S. 94, 104-111 (1988); INS v. Rios-Pineda, 471 U. S. 444, 449-452 (1985); INS v. Jong Ha Wang, 450 U. S. 139, 141-146 (1981) (per curiam).  Mindful of the Board's "broad discretion" in such matters, however, courts have employed a deferential, abuse-of-discretion standard of review.  See Doherty, 502 U. S., at 323 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     The Seventh Circuit held that Congress removed the authority long exercised by federal courts to review denials of an alien's reopening request.  Congress did so, the Court of Appeals said, in §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), which removes jurisdiction to review a decision of the Attorney General "the authority for which is specified under this subchapter to be in the discretion of the Attorney General."  All agree that the Attorney General's regulation, 8 CFR §1003.2(a), places "[t]he decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen ... within the discretion of the Board."  But the statute does not codify that prescription,9 and does not otherwise "specif[y]" that reopening decisions are "in the discretion of the Attorney General."10
III
A


1
     The Board's discretionary authority to act on a motion to reopen, we have thus far explained, is "specified" not in a statute, but only in the Attorney General's regulation, which instructs: "The decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen ... is within the discretion of the Board, subject to the restrictions of this section.  The Board has discretion to deny a motion to reopen even if the party moving has made out a prima facie case for relief."  8 CFR §1003.2(a).  Nevertheless, in defense of the Seventh Circuit's judgment, amicus urges that regulations suffice to trigger 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s proscription of judicial review.
     The jurisdiction-stripping provision, amicus reminds, refers to "authority ... specified under this subchapter."  As she reads that formulation, the word "under" is key.  She comprehends "under" to mean "pursuant to," "subordinate to," "below or lower than," "inferior ... in rank or importance," "by reason of the authority of."  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 15, 17 (citing, inter alia, Florida Dept. of Revenue v. Piccadilly Cafeterias, Inc., 554 U. S. ___, ___ (2008) (slip op., at 5); Ardestani v. INS, 502 U. S. 129, 135 (1991)).  Administrative regulations count for §1252(a)(2)(B) purposes, she urges, because they are issued "pursuant to," and are measures "subordinate to," the legislation they serve to implement.  The parties, on the other hand, read "specified under this subchapter" to mean "specified in," or "specified by," the subchapter.11


     On the reading amicus advances, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) would bar judicial review of any decision that an executive regulation places within the BIA's discretion, including the decision to deny a motion to reopen.  On the parties' reading, however, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) precludes judicial review only when the statute itself specifies the discretionary character of the Attorney General's authority.
2

     As the parties and amicus recognize, their diverse renderings of "under," standing alone, do not equip us to resolve this case.  The word "under" is chameleon; it "has many dictionary definitions and must draw its meaning from its context."  Ardestani, 502 U. S., at 135.12  Examining, in statutory context, the provision in which the word "under" is embedded, we conclude that the parties' position stands on firmer ground.
     Section 1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), the provision at issue here, is far from the only jurisdictional limitation in IIRIRA.  See Dada, 554 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13) ("In reading a statute we must not look merely to a particular clause, but consider in connection with it the whole statute." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Davis v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury, 489 U. S. 803, 809 (1989) ("[T]he words of a statute must be read in their context and with a view to their place in the overall statutory scheme.").  Section 1252(a)(2), titled "Matters not subject to judicial review," lists a variety of agency determinations the federal courts lack jurisdiction to review.  Those determinations divide into three categories.  The first, §1252(a)(2)(A), concerns immigration officers' determinations whether aliens applying for admission are admissible.  Next in statutory order is the provision before us, §1252(a)(2)(B), which involves denials of discretionary relief.  The last category, §1252(a)(2)(C), concerns final orders of removal entered against criminal aliens.


     Both §1252(a)(2)(A) and §1252(a)(2)(C) depend on statutory provisions, not on any regulation, to define their scope.  The latter provision, the criminal alien bar, precludes judicial review of "any final order of removal against an alien who is removable by reason of having committed a criminal offense covered in" §1182(a)(2), §1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), (B), (C), or (D), or certain offenses covered in §1227(a)(2)(A)(ii).  All the defining references are statutory; none invokes a regulation.  The same holds for the admissibility bar in §1252(a)(2)(A).  Given §1252(a)(2)(B)'s statutory placement, sandwiched between subsections (a)(2)(A) and (a)(2)(C), one would expect that it, too, would cover statutory provisions alone.
3

     Focusing on §1252(a)(2)(B), we note the lead line serving to introduce both of the subparagraph's two clauses: "[N]o court shall have jurisdiction to review ... ."  Clause (i) then places within the no-judicial-review category "any judgment regarding the granting of relief under section 1182(h), 1182(i), 1229b, 1229c, or 1255."  Each of the statutory provisions referenced in clause (i) addresses a different form of discretionary relief from removal, see supra, at 3, n. 2, and each contains language indicating that the decision is entrusted to the Attorney General's discretion.  See, e.g., §1182(h) ("The Attorney General may, in his discretion, waive [inadmissibility based on certain criminal offenses].").  Clause (i) does not refer to any regulatory provision.
     To the clause (i) enumeration of administrative judgments that are insulated from judicial review, Congress added in clause (ii) a catchall provision covering "any other decision ... the authority for which is specified under this subchapter."  The proximity of clauses (i) and (ii), and the words linking them--"any other decision"--suggests that Congress had in mind decisions of the same genre, i.e., those made discretionary by legislation.13  The clause (i) enumeration, we find, is instructive in determining the meaning of the clause (ii) catchall.  Read harmoniously, both clauses convey that Congress barred court review of discretionary decisions only when Congress itself set out the Attorney General's discretionary authority in the statute.  See Hall Street Associates, L. L. C. v. Mattel, Inc., 552 U. S. ___, ___ (2008) (slip op., at 9) ("[W]hen a statute sets out a series of specific items ending with a general term, that general term is confined to covering subjects comparable to the specifics it follows.").14
4

     We also find significant the character of the decisions Congress enumerated in §1252(a)(2)(B)(i), thereby insulating them from judicial review.  As the Government explained at oral argument, the determinations there listed are "substantive decisions ... made by the Executive in the immigration context as a matter of grace, things that involve whether aliens can stay in the country or not."  Tr. of Oral Arg. 14.15  They include waivers of inadmissibility based on certain criminal offenses, §1182(h), or based on fraud or misrepresentation, §1182(i); cancellation of removal, §1229b; permission for voluntary departure, §1229c; and adjustment of status, §1255.
     Other decisions specified by statute "to be in the discretion of the Attorney General," and therefore shielded from court oversight by §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), are of a like kind.  See, e.g., §1157(c)(1) (discretion to admit refugees "determined to be of special humanitarian concern to the United States"); §1181(b) (discretion to waive requirement of documentation for readmission); §1182(a)(3)(D)(iv) (discretion to waive, in certain cases, inadmissibility of aliens who have affiliated with a totalitarian party).  Decisions on reopening motions made discretionary by regulation, in contrast, are adjunct rulings: The motion to reopen is a procedural device serving to ensure "that aliens [a]re getting a fair chance to have their claims heard."  Tr. of Oral Arg. 17.  A court decision reversing the denial of a motion to reopen does not direct the Executive to afford the alien substantive relief; ordinarily, it touches and concerns only the question whether the alien's claims have been accorded a reasonable hearing.


     If Congress wanted the jurisdictional bar to encompass decisions specified as discretionary by regulation along with those made discretionary by statute, moreover, Congress could easily have said so.  In other provisions enacted simultaneously with §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), Congress expressed precisely that meaning.  See IIRIRA, §213, 110 Stat. 3009-572 ("immigration benefits pursuant to this Act; or the regulations promulgated thereunder"), codified at 8 U. S. C. §1324c(e)(2); IIRIRA, §372, 110 Stat. 3009-646 ("any of the powers, privileges, or duties conferred or imposed by this Act or regulations issued thereunder"), codified at 8 U. S. C. §1103(a)(10).  "[W]here Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion."  Nken v. Holder, 556 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (slip op., at 11) (internal quotation marks omitted).
B

     The history of the relevant statutory provisions corroborates our determination that §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) does not proscribe judicial review of denials of motions to reopen.  Attorney General regulations have long addressed reopening requests.  See 6 Fed. Reg. 71-72 (1941).  The current regulations, adopted in 1996, 61 Fed. Reg. 18904-18906, derive from rules published in 1958, see 23 Fed. Reg. 9118-9119; Dada, 554 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).
     Enacting IIRIRA in 1996, Congress "transform[ed] the motion to reopen from a regulatory procedure to a statutory form of relief available to the alien."  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 12).  IIRIRA largely codified the Attorney General's directions on filing reopening motions.  See §1229a(c)(7) (guaranteeing right to file one motion, prescribing contents, and setting deadlines).


     In the same legislation, Congress amended the INA aggressively to expedite removal of aliens lacking a legal basis to remain in the United States.  See Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm., 525 U. S. 471, 475 (1999).  Among IIRIRA's several proscriptions of judicial review is the one here at issue, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), barring review of administrative decisions Congress placed within the Attorney General's discretion.


     Congress thus simultaneously codified the process for filing motions to reopen and acted to bar judicial review of a number of executive decisions regarding removal.  But Congress did not codify the regulation delegating to the BIA discretion to grant or deny motions to reopen.  See 8 CFR §1003.2(a) (reopening may be entertained not only on application; Board "may at any time reopen ... on its own motion any case in which it has rendered a decision").  Had Congress elected to insulate denials of motions to reopen from judicial review, it could have so specified together with its codification of directions on filing reopening motions.


     From the Legislature's silence on the discretion of the Attorney General (or his delegate, the Board) over reopening motions, see supra, at 7-8, n. 10, we take it that Congress left the matter where it was pre-IIRIRA: The BIA has broad discretion, conferred by the Attorney General, "to grant or deny a motion to reopen," 8 CFR §1003.2(a), but courts retain jurisdiction to review, with due respect, the Board's decision.16  It is unsurprising that Congress would leave in place judicial oversight of this "important [procedural] safeguard" designed "to ensure a proper and lawful disposition" of immigration proceedings, Dada, 554 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15-16), where, as here, the alien's underlying claim (for asylum) would itself be reviewable.17


     In the REAL ID Act, Congress further amended the INA.  By 2005, two Courts of Appeals had already ruled that 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) did not preclude them from reviewing denials of motions to reopen, see Infanzon v. Ashcroft, 386 F. 3d 1359, 1361-1362 (CA10 2004); Medina-Morales v. Ashcroft, 371 F. 3d 520, 528-529 (CA9 2004), and no court had reached a contrary result.  Although adding or reformulating provisions on asylum, §101(a), (b), 119 Stat. 302-303, protection from removal, §101(c), (d), id., at 303-305, even judicial review, §106, id., at 310-311, the REAL ID Act did not disturb the unbroken line of decisions upholding court review of administrative denials of motions to reopen.  See supra, at 6-7; supra, at 3, n. 1.18
IV

     Any lingering doubt about the proper interpretation of 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) would be dispelled by a familiar principle of statutory construction: the presumption favoring judicial review of administrative action.  When a statute is "reasonably susceptible to divergent interpretation, we adopt the reading that accords with traditional understandings and basic principles: that executive determinations generally are subject to judicial review."  Gutierrez de Martinez v. Lamagno, 515 U. S. 417, 434 (1995).  We have consistently applied that interpretive guide to legislation regarding immigration, and particularly to questions concerning the preservation of federal-court jurisdiction.  See, e.g., INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 298 (2001); Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S., at 63-64; McNary, 498 U. S., at 496.  Because the "presumption favoring interpretations of statutes [to] allow judicial review of administrative action" is "well-settled," Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S., at 63-64 (quoting McNary, 498 U. S., at 496), the Court assumes that "Congress legislates with knowledge of" the presumption, id., at 496.  It therefore takes "clear and convincing evidence" to dislodge the presumption.  Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S., at 64 (internal quotation marks omitted).  There is no such evidence here.
     Finally, we stress a paramount factor in the decision we render today.  By defining the various jurisdictional bars by reference to other provisions in the INA itself, Congress ensured that it, and only it, would limit the federal courts' jurisdiction.  To read §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) to apply to matters where discretion is conferred on the Board by regulation, rather than on the Attorney General by statute, would ignore that congressional design.  If the Seventh Circuit's construction of §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) were to prevail, the Executive would have a free hand to shelter its own decisions from abuse-of-discretion appellate court review simply by issuing a regulation declaring those decisions "discretionary."  Such an extraordinary delegation of authority cannot be extracted from the statute Congress enacted.
V

     A statute affecting federal jurisdiction "must be construed both with precision and with fidelity to the terms by which Congress has expressed its wishes."  Cheng Fan Kwok v. INS, 392 U. S. 206, 212 (1968).  As we have noted, see supra, at 14, and as amicus emphasizes, "many provisions of IIRIRA [we]re aimed at protecting [from court review exercises of] the Executive's discretion."  American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm., 525 U. S., at 486 (emphasis deleted).  But "no law pursues its purpose at all costs, and ... the textual limitations upon a law's scope are no less a part of its 'purpose' than its substantive authorizations."  Rapanos v. United States, 547 U. S. 715, 752 (2006) (plurality opinion).  While Congress pared back judicial review in IIRIRA, it did not delegate to the Executive authority to do so.  Action on motions to reopen, made discretionary by the Attorney General only, therefore remain subject to judicial review.
*  *  *

     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.


AGRON KUCANA, PETITIONER v. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL
on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[January 20, 2010]

     Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.

     I agree that the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to review the denial of petitioner's motion to reopen his removal proceeding, but I would decide this case on narrower grounds.  The controlling statutory provision, 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), states that "no court shall have jurisdiction to review ... any ... decision ... of the Attorney General ... the authority for which is specified under this subchapter to be in the discretion of the Attorney General."  (Emphasis added.)  The phrase "under this subchapter" refers to Subchapter II of Chapter 12 of Title 8, 8 U. S. C. §§1151-1381, see ante, at 3, n. 3, and, as the Court notes, no provision of Subchapter II confers discretionary authority on the Attorney General to decide motions to reopen.  See ante, at 7-8, 14-15.  The Court of Appeals, however, held that the Attorney General's decision in this case was unreviewable because a regulation, 8 CFR §1003.2(a) (2009), made that decision discretionary.


     If this regulation had been promulgated pursuant to authority conferred by a provision of Subchapter II, we would have to confront the question that the opinion of the Court addresses.  But it seems clear that 8 CFR §1003.2, at least insofar as it gave the Attorney General the discretionary authority that he exercised in this case, is grounded on authority conferred under Subchapter I of Chapter 12 of Title 8, 8 U. S. C. §§1101-1107.  See 8 U. S. C. §1103(a) (1994 ed.) (giving the Attorney General the authority to "establish such regulations ... as he deems necessary for carrying out his authority under [Chapter 12 of Title 8 of the U. S. Code]").


     The amicus curiae whom we appointed to defend the decision of the Court of Appeals has attempted to link 8 CFR §1003.2 to Subchapter II.  She notes that the Attorney General, in promulgating that regulation, cited not only 8 U. S. C. §1103(a), but also a provision of Subchapter II, 8 U. S. C. §1252b (1994 ed.).  See 61 Fed. Reg. 18900, 18904 (1996).1  This latter statutory provision2 conferred the authority to reopen a narrow set of deportation orders, i.e., those issued after the alien failed to appear at the deportation hearing.  Although this statutory provision does not apply to petitioner's motion to reopen, amicus argues that "the section's brief allusion to motions to reopen clearly presupposed that the Attorney General had in place a more general procedure for reviewing all motions to reopen removal proceedings."  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 41-42.


     Amicus' argument is ingenious but ultimately unpersuasive.  At most, 8 U. S. C. §1252b (1994 ed.) may be read as implicitly authorizing the promulgation of a regulation giving the Attorney General the discretion to reopen certain deportation orders that were issued in absentia.  Petitioner's second motion to reopen, however, seeks reopening on grounds outside of §1252b, and therefore 8 CFR §1003.2, insofar as it applies to petitioner's case, was not issued pursuant to Subchapter II and does not implement any provision of that Subchapter.


     For these reasons, this case can and should be decided on the narrow ground that, even if some regulations can render a decision of the Attorney General unreviewable, the regulation at issue in this case does not have that effect.  

FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 Subparagraph (D) of §1252(a)(2), enacted in 2005, REAL ID Act of 2005 (REAL ID Act), §106(a), 119 Stat. 310, adds:


     "Nothing in subparagraph (B) ... or in any other provision of this Act (other than this section) which limits or eliminates judicial review, shall be construed as precluding review of constitutional claims or questions of law raised upon a petition for review filed with an appropriate court of appeals in accordance with this section."


The addition of 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(D) in 2005 did not change the operative language of §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) as enacted in 1996.


     The REAL ID Act amendments also inserted into this introductory clause, inter alia, the words "(statutory or nonstatutory)."  §106(a)(1)(A)(ii), 119 Stat. 310.  The introductory clause, however, does not define the scope of 8 U. S. C. §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s jurisdictional bar.  It simply informs that once the scope of the bar is determined, jurisdiction is precluded regardless of what any other provision or source of law might say.
Footnote 2 Sections 1182(h) and 1182(i) address waivers of inadmissibility based on certain criminal offenses, and fraud or misrepresentation, respectively; §1229b addresses cancellation of removal; §1229c, voluntary departure; and §1255, adjustment of status.
Footnote 3 "[T]his subchapter" refers to Title 8, Chapter 12, Subchapter II, of the United States Code, codified at 8 U. S. C. §§1151-1381 and titled "Immigration."
Footnote 4 The exception for relief under §1158(a) refers to administrative decisions whether to grant asylum.  Kucana's petition for judicial review is limited to the denial of his motion to reopen; he does not challenge in this proceeding the decision denying his application for asylum.
Footnote 5 The statute "guarantees to each alien the right to file 'one motion to reopen proceedings.' "  Dada v. Mukasey, 554 U. S. 1, __ (2008) (slip op., at 12) (quoting §1229a(c)(7)(A)).  Attorney General regulations permit further motions to reopen to seek asylum or withholding of removal based on changed conditions in the country of nationality or removal.  See 8 CFR §1003.2(c)(3)(ii) (2009).
Footnote 6 While recognizing that a regulation, rather than the INA itself, confers on the Board discretion to grant or deny a motion to reopen, the Court of Appeals said that the regulation, §1003.2(a), "draw[s] ... force from provisions in the Act allowing immigration officials to govern their own proceedings."  533 F. 3d, at 536.  The "force," according to the Seventh Circuit, comes from 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7), which it described as providing "authority for reopening by [the] Board."  533 F. 3d, at 536.  Section 1229a(c)(7), however, is not directed to the agency's discretion to grant or deny motions to reopen.  In the main, "it simply lays out the requirements an alien must fulfill when filing a motion to reopen."  Id., at 541 (Cudahy, J., dissenting) (emphasis added).  See also infra, at 7, n. 9.
Footnote 7 See Singh v. Mukasey, 536 F. 3d 149, 153-154 (CA2 2008); Jahjaga v. Attorney Gen. of United States, 512 F. 3d 80, 82 (CA3 2008); Zhao v. Gonzales, 404 F. 3d 295, 303 (CA5 2005); Miah v. Mukasey, 519 F. 3d 784, 789, n. 1 (CA8 2008); Medina-Morales v. Ashcroft, 371 F. 3d 520, 528-529 (CA9 2004); Infanzon v. Ashcroft, 386 F. 3d 1359, 1361-1362 (CA10 2004).
Footnote 8 Ali involved a decision, made discretionary by regulation, denying an alien's request for a continuance.
Footnote 9 As earlier noted, see supra, at 5, n. 6, the Seventh Circuit stated that the regulation specifying the Board's discretion over motions to reopen, 8 CFR §1003.2(a), "draw[s] [its] force from provisions in the Act."  533 F. 3d, at 536 (citing 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7)).  It is hard to see how the regulation could draw force from §1229a(c)(7), for the regulation was already in force when that statutory provision was enacted.  The regulation, 8 CFR §1003.2(a), was published April 29, 1996, 61 Fed. Reg. 18900, 18904; 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7) was enacted September 30, 1996, §304, 110 Stat. 3009-593.
Footnote 10 The only statutory reference to discretion respecting motions to reopen appears in §1229a(c)(7)(C)(iv)(III), which gives the Attorney General "discretion" to waive one of the statute's time limitations in extraordinary circumstances.  


     Amicus urges that "the statutory language governing motions to reopen anticipates an exercise of Attorney General discretion when it states, '[t]he motion to reopen shall state the new facts that will be proven at a hearing to be held if the motion is granted.' "  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 19, n. 8 (quoting §1229a(c)(7)(B)).  One can demur to the argument that Congress anticipated that decisions on reopening motions would be discretionary.  Even so, the statutory proscription Congress enacted, §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), speaks of authority "specified"--not merely assumed or contemplated--to be in the Attorney General's discretion.  "Specified" is not synonymous with "implied" or "anticipated."  See Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary 1116 (1974) ("specify" means "to name or state explicitly or in detail").  See also Soltane v. U. S. Dept. of Justice, 381 F. 3d 143, 147 (CA3 2004) (Alito, J.) ("[W]e do not think ... that the use of marginally ambiguous statutory language, without more, is adequate to 'specif[y]' that a particular action is within the Attorney General's discretion for the purposes of §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii).").
Footnote 11 Defining "under," as used in §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii), to mean "pursuant to," or "subordinate to," and not "in" or "by," the Attorney General observes, would give rise to "a fatal anomaly": "Section 1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) would apply only to regulations promulgated 'under the authority of' the relevant subchapter, and not to specifications of discretion in the subchapter itself."  Reply Brief for Respondent 6.
Footnote 12 In an appendix to her brief, amicus lists hundreds of statutory provisions in which regulations are described as being issued "under" a statute.  See App. A to Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below.  In every one of those examples, Congress expressly used the word "regulations."


     At oral argument, amicus called our attention to three instances in which Congress used the words "specified under" in Title 8, without any reference to "regulations," to encompass agency matters.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 47-48, 54-55 (citing §§1227(a)(1)(H), 1375a(a)(6), and 1537(b)(1)).  These three provisions point to other parts of the Act, which in turn rely on administrative determinations.  Amicus' research underscores the point that context defines "under."
Footnote 13 Congress excepted from §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) "the granting of relief under [§]1158(a)."  Section 1158 concerns applications for asylum.  Absent the exception, asylum applicants might fall within §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s jurisdictional bar because a statutory provision, §1158(b)(1)(A), specifies that "the Attorney General may grant asylum."  (Emphasis added.)  See Zadvydas v. Davis, 533 U. S. 678, 697 (2001) (" 'may' suggests discretion").
Footnote 14 Amicus suggests that the word "any" in §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) should be read expansively to draw in decisions made discretionary by regulation.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 21-23.  But §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii) does not say "any decision"; it says "any other decision."  And as we have just explained, other decisions falling within §1252(a)(2)(B)(ii)'s compass are most sensibly understood to include only decisions made discretionary by Congress.  See Brief for Respondent 19-20, and n. 11 (noting that "over thirty provisions in the relevant subchapter of the INA ... explicitly grant the Attorney General ... 'discretion' to make a certain decision").
Footnote 15 Counsel offered this explanation in response to the question: "Why would Congress want to exclude review for discretionary judgments by the Attorney General that are recited explicitly to be discretionary in the statute, but provide judicial review for judgments that are just as lawfully discretionary because the Attorney General is given the authority to make them discretionary and has done so?"  Tr. of Oral Arg. 9; see id., at 13-14.
Footnote 16 A statement in the House Conference Report on IIRIRA, amicus suggests, supports her argument that Congress intended broadly to foreclose judicial review of reopening denials.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 32-34.  The report states that §1252(a)(2)(B) "bars judicial review ... of any decision or action of the Attorney General which is specified to be in the discretion of the Attorney General."  H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 104-828, p. 219 (1996).  That statement, as we read it, simply summarizes the statutory text at a general level.  It does not home in on the question whether decisions made discretionary only by regulation are judicially reviewable.
Footnote 17 We do not reach the question whether review of a reopening denial would be precluded if the court would lack jurisdiction over the alien's underlying claim for relief.  Some courts confronting that question have refused to consider petitions for review of a reopening denial that seeks to revisit the denial of the underlying claim; they have reasoned that hearing the petition would end-run the bar to review of the petitioner's core claim.  See, e.g., Assaad v. Ashcroft, 378 F. 3d 471, 473-475 (CA5 2004) (per curiam).
Footnote 18 We express no opinion on whether federal courts may review the Board's decision not to reopen removal proceedings sua sponte.  Courts of Appeals have held that such decisions are unreviewable because sua sponte reopening is committed to agency discretion by law, see 5 U. S. C. §701(a)(2).  See, e.g., Tamenut v. Mukasey, 521 F. 3d 1000, 1003-1004 (CA8 2008) (en banc) (per curiam) (agreeing with ten other Courts of Appeals).
FOOTNOTESFootnote 1 Two other provisions in Subchapter II refer to motions to reopen, but both were enacted after the implementation of 8 CFR §1003.2 (2009), and therefore that regulation cannot be said to implement these provisions.  See ante 7, n. 9.  Title 8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(7), which addresses the procedural requirements for filing such a motion, and §1252(b)(6), which requires consolidation of a motion to reopen with the underlying removal order, were enacted as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA) in September 1996 and made effective in April 1997.  See 110 Stat. 3009-593, 3009-609.  Prior to that time, the consolidation provision was found in Subchapter I.  See 8 U. S. C. §1105(a)(6) (1994 ed.).
Footnote 2 This provision conferred the authority to rescind a deportation order "upon a motion to reopen filed within 180 days after the date of the order of deportation if the alien demonstrates that the failure to appear was because of exceptional circumstances ... or upon a motion to reopen filed at any time if the alien demonstrates that the alien did not receive notice ... or the alien demonstrates that the alien was in Federal or State custody and did not appear through no fault of the alien."  8 U. S. C. §1252b(c)(3) (1994 ed.).


     A similar provision, enacted as part of IIRIRA, is now contained in 8 U. S. C. §1229a(b)(5)(C) (2006 ed.).  As the Government notes, this provision does not apply in this case because petitioner challenges the denial of his second motion to reopen, which the parties agree is governed by §1229a(c)(7).  Brief for Respondent 21, n. 13;  id., at 6, n. 4.



